
I can’t believe they are all right. Every obscure, 19th

translated French pronoun, every acronym and abbreviation and antonym filled neatly into 

each respective box of the Sunday Times crossword puzzle. Not a single mark of scribbled 

hesitation. I fold down my grandmother’s New York Times, glancing over at her nightstand. An 

old tissue falls to the carpet. I run my fingers over empty Diet Coke cans, a flimsy piece of fabric 

that was once a lady’s bra, and a photo of my brother Max, cousin Brian and I laughing in the 

grass in Marblehead, Massachusetts. I’m no more than four. Mama sits in her chair, letting her 

unmanicured hands fold neatly on top of her lap, and asks me again "so where are you now in 

your life my Amy?" I smile at my mom as she quietly, dutifully cleans up the discarded tissues 

and moves onto the unwashed sweatpants in a heap on the floor. "I’m going to be a senior at the 

University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Mama," I repeat again.

 century literary reference, every 


Sydelle Ross was born to Russian immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York in 1920. 

The stories from her life dazzle before me as I sit on her lap, tracing the outline of a shell. I am 

eight or nine, and we sit together on her terrace in Hollywood Beach, Florida. 

"Once, as I was walking through Central Park on my way back to the Upper West Side, 

I felt the stares of several men. I was, of course, flattered. But then the stares became more 

persistent. I wondered, ‘is my skirt tucked into my underwear? Do I have something in my 

teeth?’ " Mama pauses, drawing a sharp line down my back with her pointer finger. It sends a 

shock down my spine, as usual. Zeeeek! I imagine her walking through the park, all Manhattan 

glamour with her dark hair coiffed in the same short, flattering cut of the black and white self-
portrait that hangs in her apartment.

"Turns out, Joe DiMaggio was also walking through the park that day, right in front of 

me. Ha!" We laugh together, Mama and I, and I wonder to myself who Joe DiMaggio is.



I used to sneak downstairs to the guest room early in the mornings when Mama stayed 

with us in New Jersey. I would tuck my pillow under my arm and slide under the covers, waiting 

for her to recognize my tiny body beside her. She would feign sleep, telling me several years 

later that she had always heard me, pitter-pattering down those stairs. Her radio would be playing 

the morning segments on NPR, and we would lay and listen together. I would ask her whatever 

ten year olds ask their grandmothers about: if her hair was ever longer, why she liked Spearmint 

Lifesavers so much, how my mom was as a kid. She would answer, peppering in her own 

selection of stories from a life strange and far from the bed we laid in together.



Mama grew up loving politics. "It’s your duty to know, Sydelle" her father would tell 

her before she walked to school in the mornings. I struggle, imagining Mama as a little girl in 

the 1930s. A sworn atheist, the Democratic Party became her religion - FDR her God. Mama 

made it her duty to know: reading the paper, listening to the news, and participating in political 

life during the 40s, 50s, 60s. She had opinions on tax reform, opinions on abortion, opinions 

on the wars she lived through. Throughout her life, she carried her father’s sentiment with her, 

and eventually warned a 16-year-old me the same thing. I began taking AP Government more 

seriously.


"Do you do crosswords, my Amy Amy?" Mama fidgets with her thumb, swollen with 

age, rough now, like a sausage left out to dry. "You know, on my business trips I used to sit on 

the plane doing crossword puzzles. The men next to me would weigh in, then the men across the 

aisle. It was a great way to meet people." 

So distant, her life then seems. I imagine. It’s World War II and her husband is off 

fighting somewhere in the South Pacific. She works as a secretary at McCall’s, then as a 

marketing specialist at TriChem. Her wages are half as much as men’s, yet her stakes twice as 

high. She has three children with the man she loves, only to have him die too young of Heart 

Disease when their youngest was only ten months old. Businessmen wine and dine her. She 

dates but never remarries, committing her life to her children and her work. She has affairs with 

married men. She chain-smokes cigarettes until she is 60. She finds solace in her glass of vodka, 

on the rocks, slice of orange, always served with a stirring straw. 


Mama seems surprisingly un-phased when we decide to FaceTime with my brother from 

my iPhone. He is at work in Charlotte, wearing Carolina blue at his desk at Bank of America 

Stadium. Max is a sports writer for the Carolina Panthers football team, but Mama can’t stop 

telling him how handsome he looks.

"Oh Mr. Max you look wonderful. This is truly amazing. IDLY! You know what that 

means?"


"You know, Mama, I don’t. What does it mean?" Max smiles, Mom and I look at each 

other and mouth along: 

"I-DO-LOVE-YOU!" Mama nearly shouts.

"IDLY to you too, Mama. I miss you."

"Max, you know what I want to do? Next time you’re here. Let me take you out to a 

really nice dinner. We can eat and drink and talk about all the things happening in your life. I’m 

buying."

"That sounds great Mama. I can’t wait. IDLY."

Beep beep beep. The FaceTime ends and the screen goes black. Who knows how long it 

takes for the memory of the conversation to fade from her mind - maybe seconds. The thought 

of the dinner that can’t happen warms me: my 24-year-old brother, 58-year-old mother, 91-year-
old grandmother, and 21-year-old self sitting at a table, drinking, eating and laughing together, 

spanning generations. 


Mama was ready when she retired to Florida at the age of 70. Her apartment there was 

spacious and airy - a one-bedroom with just enough room for two rambunctious kids and a happy 

mother to visit in the summers. The kitchen had linoleum flooring that stuck to our bare feet 

when we came back from the beach for our toasted tuna fish sandwiches. The television blared 

Jeopardy in the evenings, Alex Trebek’s voice seeping into memories of evenings on Mama’s 

terrace, me in my Belle nightgown, Max with his mushroom haircut, all together watching boats 

float down the Intercoastal. The coffee table, sleek and low to the ground, always had a bowl 

of shells from Mama’s many walks along the shoreline. I used to sneak them into my pockets, 

thinking no one knew, later claiming the huge snail shell as my own beach discovery. Mama 

probably knew my secret. She knew everything.

Until, we discovered, she didn’t. Brian was twenty, visiting Mama with a good friend 

from college. It was summer and the boys wanted nothing but sun, sleep, and the occasional 

margarita. I imagine Mama, happy to play host, setting out her famous cocktail hour hors 

d’oeuvres of liver pate, spinach dip with carrots, and Hershey’s Hugs (never Kisses). She sits 

down with Brian, asks about his life at the University of Pittsburgh, about his girlfriends and his 

food preferences, then the same for Brian’s friend. She swishes vodka through her teeth, takes 

one last bite of pate smeared on a plain bagel chip and heads off to bed. It will be a couple of 

hours until she wakes up and hears noises. She will be startled, step into the living room, and 

yell. She will screech. WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE IN MY HOUSE? Brian will be afraid. Maybe 

he will cry, maybe he will stare blankly at the woman he thought he knew. He will head home 

to Massachusetts and Mama will eventually head there too, first to my aunt and uncle’s, then to 

Woodbridge Assisted Living in Peabody.


A poster hangs on the wall in Mama’s room at Woodbridge. It is small, with a clown-
faced man holding onto hundreds of primary colored balloons. He’s floating away, up 

through the vast whiteness of the page. At the bottom, the bold red text declares: "I have been 

everywhere. I have seen everything. But I remember nothing!" Mama loves this poster, and I 

love her for that.


"So where are you now my darling?" Mama asks me. We are sitting together in the hall 

outside of her shared room. She has been moved into this double only recently, after VA benefits 

and Social Security alone couldn’t cover it. Her meager savings from years of unfair wages have 

finally run dry. Rosie, her roommate, strikes me as a cold and bitter woman, but mostly keeps to 

herself. Mama will say hello, then whisper to me that she has lived twice the amount of life as all 

of the people in this damn place.

The couch in the hall is tough, durable if not comfortable, meant to last for ages. Mama 

doesn’t seem to mind it. Mom and I have our established routine: I take Mama outside while she 

cleans out the apartment - opening up windows to let in fresh air, replacing soiled bed quilts, and 

tossing out old bottles of Popov. 

"I’m at Michigan now Mama, studying English and Writing."

"You know, I worked at a magazine in Manhattan once. McCall’s. And I lived there with 

Maury. We had fabulous friends. I love New York - it is the center of the world. Amy, where are 

we now?"

"Massachusetts, right near Aunt Phil’s house."

"And what year is it?"

"2013, Mama."

"2013. Gosh. Is Bush still president? You know I hate that man."

"No Mama, he isn’t. Barack Obama has been president since 2008."

"And what month is it?"

"It’s June, Mama. Look outside, it’s beautiful out."

"Right. Right. So tell me, my Amy Amy, where are you now?"

"Michigan, Mama."


Mama had been deceiving us all - she had sounded so cheerful on the phone. Sure, she 

was going to the beach less, but that was presumably due to her bad knee. Her appetite had 

decreased, but she always ate so little anyway. She was still driving. It wasn’t until Mom and 

Aunt Phil went down to her apartment after Brian’s visit and found the subtle disarray of the 

apartment - the unpaid bills, the spoiled cream on the counter - that they realized we had all 

been deceived by what we had hoped couldn’t be true. I was seventeen then, with other concerns 

about college applications and student government meetings. My grandma was still healthy, 

didn’t need a walker, knew Spanish drinking toasts and Japanese greetings. I couldn’t conceive 

of losing her or her mind, so I didn’t.


I take another look at the Times crossword puzzle on Mama’s bed. All correct.

"May you live every day of your life." Mama wraps her frail arms around me. I feel the 

shape of her tiny chest press into my stomach, hers so shrunken, mine alive with youth. I marvel 

at my grandma, my Mama. Memories from a far away time dance through her head, filling up 

every corner of her mind - stories of independence and love and experience completely her own. 

And yet. Soon, she may not remember my name.

Pulling away from our embrace, I turn to leave her. Will she think about us later, 

sitting at her table in the dining hall? Will she dream about Mom and I tonight? Or will her mind 

slip into a reverie of her and Maury in their apartment in Manhattan? Does she even dream at all?

Today, I like to imagine that Mama’s story is one that has already been written. Her 

mind now, so strange and full of mystery, can only be classified as something else entirely. 

She is beyond that Sydelle, beyond my Mama. And it’s our visits with her that remind me of 


this shockingly painful reality, and of my own duties as her only granddaughter. It will always 

be hard, but now I have my own apartments to live in, jobs to have, life to live. And I have the 

amazing voice of my grandmother’s stories ringing in my ears.

Soon we are driving away, Mom and I, to continue living our every day, while my

Mama lives somewhere inside the glorious memories of a life well lived.(An Admittedly Misleading Title for a Non-Science Paper on Defining Good Writing)

I don't know where this essay is going to be ten paragraphs from now. Neither (unless you cheat 

and scroll ahead) do you. 

Did you look ahead? 

It’s okay; now that you’re back, join me on my evolution from quasi-sycophantic freshman 

Great Books writer to the person sitting and writing this essay today (a hopefully less quasi-
sycophantic writer working with every paper, every blog post and every single piece of writing 

that I write to find my authentic voice. I’ll call this a "work in progress" for now…and probably 

for forever).

So, I bet you’re wondering about that freshman in Great Books. If you weren’t, now you are. The 

girl sitting behind her keyboard right now, talking to you, is a long way away from that 18-year-
old girl in her first college writing class. She’s eager to show off what words she can use; she’s 

excited to dive into some classic Literature with a capital "L"; she’s looking for an A on a paper 

about gods and men in Homer’s Iliad. Here, at the last sentence of the introduction paragraph, is 

that freshman girl’s thesis:

"Instances when the gods interact with great heroes on earth like Achilles and Hector 

help to illuminate both the glorious, heroic attributes of these mortal men and the petty 

single-mindedness of the gods." 

Not bad. The paper soon moves through various examples of gods as petty and mortal men as 

heroes. I suppose there’s no shocker there. Here, at the last sentence of that girl’s conclusion, is 

her big point:

"Ultimately, these portrayals of gods as petty and manipulative help to further glorify the 

heroic actions of mortals."

Nothing particularly groundbreaking there, considering she concludes with the same thing she 

starts with. Nothing lost, nothing gained. Yes, the assignment was only 3 pages, but still. My 

current self wonders if it took my past self more than 20 minutes to piece this bad boy together. 

No thought required: regurgitate evidence and submit.

Then again, there is really nothing wrong with that first essay. It had an (albeit fairly weak) 

argument, used evidence well, and received an A. But I still hate it, and I have a feeling that you 

Page break!

Because Good Writing, I have since figured out, should probably be a little hard. And that, I 

think, comes from a nuanced argument.

Everything I have ever written makes some sort of argument. And not just argument as the 

American Heritage Dictionary defines it:

ar·gu·ment – An angry discussion involving disagreement among the participants 

Yes, my argumentative papers from Political Science courses make an explicit argument (that 

perhaps some would get angry at and discuss for or against based on the classic definition of the 

word), but my tonal choice in a creative writing piece is also an argument that contributes to the 

story or poem’s meaning; my selected evidence for a research paper also reflects an argument 

of what I think is most important to demonstrate an idea; my theses are sometimes explicitly 

arguments, but are sometimes hidden in the prose of my creative nonfiction. Among all of 

those styles of writing there is at least some form of an argument being made and supported and 

nuanced by my style, evidence, and structural choices.

So that "hard" part that I referred to earlier is making that argument more than just a rehashing 

of some basic idea. Good Writing ought to find a way to really say something. Good arguments 

involve a higher level of engagement with the topic being researched or explored via the mode 

of writing. And that engagement can only happen for me if I go into a writing assignment with a 

general idea, but then use writing as a process of discovery.

Coming to the same conclusion as I had in my original thesis for that Great Books paper is a 

great example of how NOT to discover anything while writing. 

To recap so far: Good Writing should be hard, because Good Writing should strive to make 

some sort of argument that pushes us all (writer and reader) to think deeper about the topic at 

Page break 2!

Later that year, that same freshman girl took a class about the concept of reality. It was in that 

class that She was slowly becoming more and more like Me. The professor of that course didn’t 

believe in grades, and, for the first time in my life, I had the chance to learn entirely for the sake 

of learning. I wrote an essay (with no length or structural requirement) describing how I felt 

about reality; by the semester’s end, I ended up with some stuff like this:

"Although sensory experiences are necessary for our own experience of the world, it is 

the process of sharing experiences that helps to mesh 

individual perceptions into a larger truth of experiences are "real." Thus, to refer to the 

age-old question that we harped on in class: if a tree falls in a forest and no one is there to 

see/hear it, does it make a sound? Without any sensory confirmation of the falling tree, 

how can we know if it even exists at all to make a noise? Based on this logic, it seems 

reasonable to assert that the tree only comes into existence when a human experiences 

and perceives it; in other words, the reality of the tree relies on human recognition of said 

tree."

I struggled with these concepts, and, through writing, wondered:

"I may initially believe that something exists and is real, but without the collective 

confirmation given by those around me, it is impossible to be sure. But this gets to a 

deeper question: are there some permanent underlying particles that constitute reality and 

exist regardless of this process of sensory experience and confirmation?" 

I continued to show signs of intellectual struggle, grappling with heavy ideas that I had never 

grappled with before. By the end of the paper, I was able to continue questioning and say:

"Individual perception and interpretation are the only means of forming a view of reality, 

and without those aspects, reality as we know it ceases to exist. Perhaps, however, 

there is another way to interpret reality, and instead of a lack of reality beyond human 

perception, there is some other reality that we simply cannot perceive that exists beyond 

human interpretation."

Woah! You may be saying. I know that I had spent many hours with this essay. Thinking, 

researching, writing, rewriting - really using the paper as a channel to learn and discover 

something new. The language is still not perfect; the tone isn’t how I would have written it 

today; but the paper is something both Past Me and Present Me can agree is a much better work 

of brainpower. She and Me were really coming together.

Because Good Writing is just good thinking.

And the writing you and I both enjoy reading is evidence of that statement as truth. Whether 

it’s a funny satire in The Onion or a Paul Krugman article on the economy, you can just tell that 

writing is good because there is a good thinker doing some good heavy mental lifting behind the 

keyboard through his or her process. 

Sure, a writer could have a nicely polished piece of prose with excellent grammatical form and 

impressive words, but if that piece of prose didn’t challenge the writer to think and rethink and 

write and rewrite, then the final result simply cannot be "Good." At least not by my definition.

To recap for you: Good Writing should be hard, and can only come from a place of deep 

thinking. The prose is only as strong as the argument it is applying to.

Page break 3!

As a sophomore, I learned how to write a research paper in the social sciences (think 

Introduction, Data, Findings, Discussion); I took a creative writing class and wrote poems and 

short stories with various points of view and character arcs; I started writing about writing in 

Writing 220. "Writing" and "text" became terms as nuanced as "argument." Real, meaningful 

writing that challenged the Five-Paragraph-Essay form became harder to achieve, but I continued 

to expand my conception of forms of arguments. 

In a strange twist, I ended up writing a piece in my junior year that had a form given to me. 

It was an imitation essay, riffing off of Jamaica Kincaid’s Girl. My writing-as-discovery wasn’t 

as obvious in this as it had been with, say, my reality paper, but I did learn more about Kincaid’s 

intentions via writing my own version of her. I also learned how to craft an argument using 

subtlety. And how to use humor to say something potentially serious. (Not to mention more 

about how far I could push myself into unknown writing territory…2 pages of writing semicolon 

after semicolon? Awesome.):

"When I tell a joke, you laugh…hard; laugh like you just watched your grandmother 

trip up the stairs; laugh like you mean it, because you should mean it; don’t look at 

that woman in the low-cut dress walking past us in the grocery store; don’t ever try to 

argue that your alma matter is better than my alma matter, because it is not; on Sundays 

please remember that, while I know you think football is important, so is that re-run of 

Top Chef that I need to watch; always wear that cologne I bought you; don’t ever wear 

that pink shirt that says "I’m with stupid"—yes the one your mother got you—it is both 

emasculating and sexist; did you think I wouldn’t notice when you put that dirty fork in 

the drawer without washing it?; don’t ignore me…"

I had discovered that Good Writing does not require a pure blank and BAM – the writing 

process makes some intelligent discovery simply happen. A lot of my favorite writing has come 

from prompts that provide a form and structure, giving scaffolding to hang my own ideas off of. 

By the way, if you are reading this sentence because you just scrolled down after my opening 

line, tsk tsk tsk. Scroll back up! If you have reached this point via organic, linear reading, 

continue on.

Sometimes, as was the case for the Kincaid riff, my Good Writing comes from a magical sit-
down at the keyboard after the lighting of a good idea strikes me…several hours will pass and 

I will have done something with a lot of raw potential. You may think Hey! That doesn’t seem 

very hard…and that was your first point about Good Writing, wasn’t it!? Well yes, you are right. 

But what’s a good argument without a little room for contradiction?

This was the also case for my essay titled "Mama"; it was a creative nonfiction piece written in 

my senior year about my maternal grandmother with dementia. It was a labor of real love. I had 

plenty of material to work with, and the words spilled out of me. That first draft was Okay, but 

what made that essay Good was when I took the time to revisit what I had written and reflect at 

the essay’s end:

"Pulling away from our embrace, I turn to leave her. Will she think about us later, sitting 

at her table in the dining hall? Will she dream about Mom and I tonight? Or will her 

mind slip into a reverie of her and Maury in their apartment in Manhattan? Does she even 

dream at all?

Today, I’d like to imagine that Mama’s story is one that has already been written. Her 

mind now, so strange and full of mystery, can only be classified as something else 

entirely. She is beyond that Sydelle, beyond my Mama. And it’s our visits with her 

that remind me of this shockingly painful reality, and of my own duties as her only 

granddaughter. It will always be hard, but now I have my own apartments to live in, jobs 

to have, life to live. And I have the amazing voice of my grandmother’s stories ringing in 

my ears.

Soon we are driving away, Mom and I, to continue living our every day, while my Mama 

lives somewhere inside the glorious memories of a life well lived." 

This is a conclusion I had never thought of; one that was as painful to realize in my mind as it 

had been to write. But I could not have gotten there without the writing process. And that "good 

thinking" came into play when crafting my final "argument." Yes, the one I had no idea I would 

come to at the onset of the essay.

One last recap: Good Writing should be hard and is really just good thinking. But sometimes, 

the writing process seems easy (or even magical). This, I think, can only come from having done 

a lot of thinking about the topic at hand previously, and even then, writing still leaves room for 

more discoveries via the process itself.

Page break 4!

Of course, it’s really hard to say what Good Writing is, really. People have different tastes. 

People will argue with arguments and find fault with structural decisions and question word 

choices. People may even stop reading out of boredom (even in this case…but bare with me, I’m 

almost done).

But, for me, my Good Writing always starts with a spark. Something to get me interested. 

Sometimes it’s just a first line of text or sometimes it a very general idea – but it always starts 

with something that excites me. Then, it takes work. This is the part that is the most dread 

inducing, but that heavy lifting is what makes the final product Good versus Just Okay or even 

Bad Bad Bad. 

For my Capstone Project, I already have that spark. I have a topic I am passionate about and 

plenty of material to work with. I have the amazing recordings of my paternal grandparents 

discussing their experience in Poland and Germany during the Holocaust. They are survivors, 

and I am a member of the last generation to have experienced their generation directly. They 

were my grandparents. They played with me on the lawn, gave me chocolates and dolls, led our 

Passover seders. And as a tribute to them, I am going to really engage with their stories. Do more 

than just retell who they are, but explore what it really means to remember, and how history 

and pop culture may shift their legacy and the way we perceive and react to the Holocaust as 

a culture that’s slowly growing up. I have a responsibility to handle this topic with a lot of 

good thinking, and I hope that the result will prove to be Good Writing that makes you think, 

question, and engage with the topic yourself, as I had.

Because in the end, for me, Good Writing is really a process of discovery. For writer and for 

reader. For both of us.Ode to oil, fast cars, and freedom

I hope you know, we are not proud to be doing this. 

But we the disgruntled, the growing minority, the hopeless fossil fuel lovers, are 

finally lashing out against your energy rationing ways and your ruthless campaign to limit our 

Like socialists, communists, Marxists—you continue to yell at us to use less water while 

we brush our teeth (but the faucet is such a pain to turn on and off and on and off), to take shorter 

showers (one is never truly clean unless they shower for 30 minutes or more), and to stop driving 

our luxury Hummer 3s (have you seen the horsepower on those things?!). Enough is enough—

we have gathered from far and wide, even knocking down trees to pave more direct roads if we 

had to, to stand up to your bullying and say NO to your outlandish demands.

Yes, you can rally in grassy parks, wearing all-natural hemp shirts and hugging your oh-
so-beloved trees. But we will fight our fight from the comfort of our new luxury condominiums, 

built on the plot of land where that endangered bird species used to live, cranking the thermostat 

up to 75 degrees Fahrenheit despite the balmy spring weather and –would you pass the plastic 

bottle of water that I plan to take one sip out of then throw out, please?

When you say reduce, we say increase!

When you say reuse, we say use once then buy another!

When you say recycle, we say just toss it in the trash, it’s easier!

Sure, some may call us irresponsible, wasteful, arrogant, and ignorant, but we say come 

check out the size of our carbon footprint.

Those fossilized animals from millions of years ago ought not to have died in vain. They 

would want us to burn them up as a quick source of un-renewable energy for our planes, trains, 

and giant SUVs. You say you fight for the rights of animals, but what about honoring those 

unfortunate ones who have become fossilized? Who are the ignorant ones, now? 

We reserve the right to leave our TVs on for the day so our dogs can watch their soaps, to 

use a Moped to get the newspaper inconveniently located at the bottom of our driveway, to sleep 

with every light on in the house to keep the night less dark and dreary. 

Go Green? You’re just green with envy. So get out of the carpool lane and join us. 

While our actions may be destroying the world for future generations—carpe diem. Let’s go do 

doughnuts with our Ducatis or tip over a Smart Car or two.

P.S., those solar panels are hideous.Riddle me this: how riddles contribute to final participation

There is no question that the ancient Greeks have greatly contributed to western 

civilization, providing insight into theories of government, philosophy, athletics, and even 

riddles. While riddles may seem a non-sequitor in this litany of profoundly significant aspects 

of life today, riddles have a more significant power than one may initially assume. One of the 

most famous riddles from Greek mythology, posited by the Sphinx to all the people of Thebes, 

reads as follows: "Which creature in the morning goes on four legs, at mid-day on two, and 

in the evening upon three, and the more legs it has, the weaker it be?" Stumped? It takes a 

certain faculty of mind to ascertain the answer to such a riddle, and the legendary Oedipus 

solves it with this response: "Man—who crawls on all fours as a baby, then walks on two feet 

as an adult, and then walks with a cane in old age." Can solving the enigma of a truly good 

riddle such as this one have the power to effectively change your perception of the essence of 

something? Through what Aristotle called the "active mind" (Amrine 10/6) or what we may 

call imagination, good riddles function as poetry does in that both utilize language to create 

metaphors that open prescient minds to new meanings of the world’s phenomena. Under the 

larger umbrella of poetry, riddles add to our notion of reality as a means of contributing to 

Owen Barfield’s concept of final participation.

In order to begin discussing the importance of riddles today, it is necessary to 

investigate the history of the social and literary merit of riddles. While in the present day 

riddles are mostly viewed as simple and amusing puzzles that "take themselves lightly" 

(Wilbur 32), such was not always the case. In primitive societies, riddles as an oral tradition 

functioned as a means of providing new insight into the reality of life. While early tribal 

societies often used riddles "playfully" (33), they were never considered trivial in their 

merit. For primitive tribal communities, to answer a riddle correctly was to "see the peculiar 

qualities of an object or creature…and to have insight into the relatedness of all phenomena, 

the reticulum of the world" (33-34). Here, the function of the riddle goes beyond simple 

playfulness, and rather crosses into the threshold of the imaginative world, contributing to a 

greater consciousness of phenomena. Riddles were considered deeply spiritual and powerful, 

insofar that they were often used as a means of "settling disputes and the winning of brides, 

burial rites, fertility rite, and other religious" experiences (34). Because solving a riddle 

provided a means of approaching the sacred meaning of the things themselves, riddles were an 

integral part of life for primitive people. 

That riddles deeply affected the primitive man’s consciousness of reality pays homage 

to Owen Barfield’s concept of original participation in Saving the Appearances. Primitive 

people, Barfield argues, experienced phenomena as "outside" of themselves (Barfield 41), and 

thus had a kind of original participation with the phenomena of the world. Their experience 

of the world was that representations of phenomena contain meaning behind them, "which is 

of the same nature as me" (42). In this active participation between man and the world around 

him, man "is the totem" he is experiencing, and has an "extra-sensory participation" with 

representations being both outer and part of himself (32). Thus, for a primitive man or woman 

to understand the answer to a riddle was a means for that person to understand a deeper reality 

within their own consciousness. To be able to describe the "spirit" of things in the form of a 

riddle was seen as a profoundly religious or even sacred act of experiencing the phenomena of 

the world because the participatory consciousness of primitive people held that inner and outer 

phenomena were interconnected to their consciousness of the world.

Beyond the function of riddles in more primitive cultures, it is clear that riddles were 

considered to have more literary merit throughout the development of Western civilization. 

For the ancient Greeks, riddles were considered a poetic form, held by high esteem and 

utilized by notable minds including "Pindar [and] Theocritus" (34). Aristotle’s Poetics 

goes on to "treat the riddle with respect" (35) by defining the riddle as a type of poetry that 

utilizes metaphor, what he considered the highest form of language. In the part XXII of the 

Poetics, Aristotle elucidates, "the essence of a riddle is to express true facts under impossible 

combinations" (Aristotle, XXII). This seems to be a rather straightforward, standard definition 

of the function of a riddle, noting how riddles use figurative words and descriptions to 

illustrate some literal thing in an unusual or enigmatic way. Aristotle notes, however, that 

such a form cannot rely on "any arrangement of ordinary words" (Aristotle, XXII), but rather 

utilizes the linguistic power of metaphor. For Aristotle, the making of metaphor is, "the 

mark of genius, for to make good metaphors implies an intuitive perception of the similarity 

in dissimilars" (Poetics, XXII). Thus, for Aristotle to consider successful riddles to be the 

effective use of metaphor was to place the riddle form into the realm of high poetry. In fact, 

if one fast-forwards thousands of years to The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics, 

modern authorities on poetry continue to define the "riddle" in terms of metaphor, explaining 

that the riddle is "essentially a metaphor which draws attention to likenesses between unrelated 

objects" (Preminger 711). 

Looking at the ancient Greek riddle of the Sphinx mentioned earlier, one can see how 

the mythic riddle relies on metaphor to describe the various stages of man’s life. The first 

piece of the riddle, "What walks on four legs in the morning light," contains two metaphors: 

the four legs metaphorically represent a crawling infant, and the morning light represents the 

early stages of life. There are many things one may think of when considering the category of 

creatures that "walks on four legs," such as dogs, tigers, turtles, or other four-legged animals, 

so comparing something that walks on four legs to an infant takes a certain mental faculty, 

namely imagination, that is also used when understanding metaphors. The second half of the 

riddle, which reads, "On two at noontide, and on three at night" again relies on metaphor. By 

the end of the riddle, one can see that the phenomenon of the rising and setting of the sun 

provides the metaphor of a human lifespan. Furthermore, upon solving the riddle one can 

see that the various, X-legged creatures are all metaphors for how man walks: on all fours 

in infancy, on two solid legs in maturity, and on two legs and a cane by man’s elder years. 

Riddles in general work in this metaphorical fashion, stressing similarities and differences 

and finally using the juxtaposition of both to create meaning. That riddles such as this ancient 

Greek example are metaphoric is what makes them both puzzling and profound. In order to 

obtain the meaning of this riddle, or any riddle, one must reach beyond typical associations 

with categorical concepts of phenomena.

Around the fourth century, riddle making became more apparently literary with 

Symphosius’s series of Latin riddles, which were in the form of "three-line hexameters" 

(Wilbur 35). Here, there is a literal yoking of a clearly poetic meter and rhyme scheme with 

the riddle form, while also using the academic language of Latin. One version of a riddle from 

Symphosius, translated by Richard Wilbur, is, "Four equal sisters equidistant run/ As if they 

vied in strength and speed, but none/ Gains on another, and their task is one" (Wilbur 35). 

This enigmatic riddle clearly utilizes metaphor by selectively stressing certain aspects of the 

"sisters" while excluding other aspects of what they are a metaphor for. The answer to this 

riddle is "rotae," (35) or wheels. Symphosius seamlessly turns the four wheels of a cart into 

four competing sisters through the use of metaphor. The mental process that we go through to 

arrive at the answer to such a riddle provides an example of how a truly powerful riddle can 

push us to use our imaginations in a new way, to conceive of phenomena in an entirely new 

Moving through the history of riddles, the Middle Ages provided the English speaking 

world with The Exeter Book, which is "ninety-odd anonymous riddles in the Anglo-Saxon 

tongue" (Wilbur 35) that is considered one of the oldest pieces of recorded English literature. 

One great riddle from this collection is the twenty-fifth, which is translated as follows:

I am a wondrous creature: to women a thing of joyful expectation, to close-
lying companions serviceable. I harm no city-dweller excepting my slayer 

alone. My stem is erect and tall--I stand up in bed--and whiskery somewhere 

down below. Sometimes a countryman's quite comely daughter will venture, 

bumptious girl, to get a grip on me. She assaults my red self and seizes my 

head and clenches me in a cramped place. She will soon feel the effect of her 

encounter with me, this curl-locked woman who squeezes me. Her eye will be 

wet. (Crossley-Holland)

The key to solving this riddle again is to get an understanding of the underlying metaphor, 

and ultimately discern the answer to be an onion. Clearly, there is an underlying sexual 

innuendo utilized in the description of the onion, in order to conflate two seemingly unrelated 

categories. Thus, this riddle provides a new mode of thinking about an onion, by comparing 

it to a completely unrelated aspect of life. The connection between all of the riddles discussed 

so far lies in the eloquent use of metaphor to create meaning; despite the lack of modernity of 

these riddles, all remain truly effective and have lasting power because the interal metaphor 

resonates with the reader. Based on these examples, it becomes apparent that primitive 

cultures, ancient Greek civilization, and the people of the Middle Ages all appreciated the 

powerful appeal of riddles that clearly still contain a considerable amount of wit and resonance 

As compared to the value placed on riddles in these more remote pasts, riddles today 

seem to have lost some merit, often ranked as "folk" or "popular" (Wilbur 37) rather than 

literary. One really interesting development that Wilbur notes in his essay on riddles is that 

the devolution of riddles from literary to "parlor diversions" (38) happens around the same 

time of the scientific revolution, when "objects and creatures of the physical world were more 

and more generally conceived of mere mechanisms…discernable only by mathematics" (39). 

This neatly maps onto Barfield’s argument in Saving the Appearances, in which Barfield 

claims that original participation becomes separated from the consciousness of man after the 

Middle Ages with the onset of the scientific revolution and empiricist theories of knowledge. 

In the Middle Ages, to think about phenomena was, "to look at and to think about them as 

appearances—representations" and then achieve knowledge of the phenomena by "an act of 

union with the represented behind the representation" (Barfield 87). Thus, words and names 

had meaning in themselves, "in much the same solid-feeling way as things are" (86), and 

riddles fit into this concept. Riddles in medieval times would have been considered a 

powerful form of art because the participating consciousness of medieval people, similarly to 

the consciousness of primitive people, apprehended the meaning of things themselves as 

representations, and thus could find real, significant meaning of phenomena in the metaphors 

created by riddles. 

Today, riddles often fall into the category of the "quaint" that Barfield discusses, 

becoming "pure fancy" (Wilbur 39), rather than a serious mode of thinking about the 

phenomena of the world. In fact, that oftentimes riddles today become associated with nursery 

rhymes shows the devolution of riddles into Barfield’s idea of "quaintness." Wilbur argues 

that just as, "small children are animists" in that they give inanimate objects the power to 

have feelings or personalities, riddles are a form of animism in that they project life and 

consciousness onto outer inanimate objects (Wilbur 39). For the modern consciousness, 

this goes against "common sense" which relies on phenomena being "wholly dependant of 

consciousness" and inner (Barfield 72). Because riddles seemingly assign consciousness 

onto phenomena that supposedly only exist outside of our consciousness, the metaphors that 

give inanimate things animate consciousness in riddles seem almost silly to a modern person. 

Solving riddles in a time like the Middle Ages, however, would be considered significantly 

more meaningful and artful because of the participatory consciousness of such a time, in which 

riddles had the power to add meaning to people’s real consciousness of the phenomena of the 

Despite the change in human consciousness, however, riddles ought still to be treated 

as forms of literary merit because of how they make us use our imaginations to actually 

contribute to our consciousness of the world. Riddles have proven to have lasting power, as 

the aforementioned riddles have shown, because of their ability to force the reader to 

"decompose the vivid picture which we have insisted on making, and see through it to the 

answer" (Wilbur 42). Through the use of metaphor, good riddles function as good poetry in 

their ability to alter our sense of reality by adding new meaning to something. For example, a 

short folk riddle which reads, "Lives in winter/ Dies in summer, / And grows with its root 

upwards" (44), provides a new insight into the being of an icicle by combining and 

juxtaposing concepts to add meaning to the concept of an icicle. Here, an icicle becomes a 

living thing, and the riddle itself shakes the normal conception of icicles as merely frozen 

water to something deeper. 

Rather than write riddles off as trivial, they ought to be classified as artful forms of 

poetry. Some may argue that riddles do not have a poetic form as compared to serious poetry 

and thus lack literary merit. Despite this, just as poetry written in prose form or free verse 

is still poetic, riddles need not be in iambic pentameter, or have a definite rhyme scheme, in 

order to be profound and meaningful. Rather, riddles hold poetic power in how they make 

readers consider things imaginatively by grappling with metaphors. Furthermore, in his essay 

titled "Bottom’s Dream: The Likeness of Poems and Jokes," Howard Nemerov explains that 

poems must "seem very mysterious," must "have an answer (=meaning) which is precise, 

literal, and total; that is, which accounts for every item in the poem," and finally must also 

"remain very mysterious…[even] when you know the answer" (Nemerov). This definition 

of poetry may as well read "riddle" rather than "poem" based on the overlapping goals of 

both forms. Similarly, Edgar Allen Poe, the great American writer, defined poetry as "the art 

of making novel combinations," (49), which also fits well with the function of riddles in that 

riddles combine and compare concepts to describe something in a new way. 

While certain riddles may seem too straightforward, lighthearted and flat, such as 

the modern classic, "what’s black and white and read all over? A newspaper," good riddles 

function just as good poetry does, by sending us back into the riddle once we get the answer to 

get a greater understanding of the meaning of the answer. While flat riddles like that one die 

after one "gets it," all of the aforementioned riddles have stood the test of time because they 

"provide employment, improvement and enjoyment to the mental faculties" (Landon 724) and 

continually offer insight and meaning into phenomena that otherwise would be lost. Just as 

Robert Burns’ famous poem A Red Red Rose, in which he writes, "Oh my love is like a red red 

rose" has stayed in literary fashion because the meaning he created through metaphor added 

a novel concept of what love can be, riddles also create new conceptual meaning. Thus, truly 

good riddles ultimately are a form of poetry because they provide a means of discovering a 

deeper understanding of phenomena through eloquent use of metaphor.

Furthermore, just as riddles function often as poems, the reverse is often true as well, 

in that poetry can also be read as a riddle of sorts. For example, the following poem by Robert 

Creeley functions in this matter:

If you wander far enough

you will come to it

and when you get there

they will give you a place to sit

for yourself only, in a nice chair,

and all your friends will be there

with smiles on their faces

and they will likewise all have places.

Here, it would be hard to even attempt to grasp the "meaning" of the poem without the poem’s 

title, which is "Oh No." In this example, the title serves as a clue to the possible answer to the 

dramatic situation of this poem. What is the "it" being described? Why are people smiling 

in their "places" here? This poem can be read as a riddle of sorts because it asks the reader to 

figure out what is going on through metaphorical language. That the title is "Oh No" clues the 

reader into the potential for this poem to be describing a funeral parlor, or a bizarre heaven, or 

death in general, but the answer is left for interpretation. Another poem that utilizes the idea of 

a riddle is Sylvia Plath’s "Metaphors":

I'm a riddle in nine syllables, 

An elephant, a ponderous house, 

A melon strolling on two tendrils, 

O red fruit, ivory, fine timbers! 

This loaf’s big with its yeasty rising. 

Money's new-minted in this fat purse. 

I'm a means, a stage, a cow in calf. 

I've eaten a bag of green apples, 

Boarded the train there's no getting off.

This poem provides for both straightforwardness and ambiguity, just as riddles do, in that one 

figures out that she is talking about her pregnant self, but whether or not she is proud or sad 

about this state of affairs is up for interpretation. Thus, these two poems highlight what may 

be considered a fundamental difference between poetry and riddles: poems will not provide a 

concrete answer like riddles do. 

Despite this assumption, however, riddles also contain multiple interpretations for 

answers and room for ambiguity, such as the following Anglo-Saxon riddle translated by 

I saw in a corner something swelling,

Rearing, rising, and raising its cover.

A lovely lady, a lord’s daughter, 

Buried her hands in that boneless body, 

Then covered with a cloth the puffed up creature. (Wilbur 37)

Here, the riddle’s answer is a loaf of bread, despite the fact that many may also feel as though 

the answer has some other, "off-color" (37) phallic reference. That riddles and poetry both 

"avoid the expected thing" (48) through a startling or deceptive use of metaphor shows how 

closely related these two concepts are, and how in fact riddles are a form of poetry.

In his introduction to Owen Barfield’s Poetic Diction, Howard Nemerov explains 

the importance of poetry by explaining that "language is the storehouse of imagination" 

(Poetic Diction, 23). By this, he implies that language, when functioning poetically, mediates 

"transition from the individualized, dreaming spirit that carried the infancy of the world," (23) 

or what Barfield assumed was "original participation," to "the individualized human spirit" 

of Barfield’s final participation (23). Good riddles, like all good poetry, create this palpable 

link to human imagination that helps us to perceive reality in a conscious way, while normally 

we perceive phenomena "at an unconscious level" (28). Throughout Poetic Diction, Barfield 

argues that true perception is derived from "language itself" and the "individualized mind 

of the poet," and thus, reading and understanding poetic riddles can create a felt change of 

consciousness and provide a means of stepping, "towards a true, participant knowledge as 

distinct from the haphazard pull-and-push of ignorance which claims in public the name of 

science" (32). Thus, poetic riddles clearly have value as a means of achieving this participant 

Ultimately, that riddles function as poetry by using metaphor to create meaning 

to be ascertained by the imagination, proves that riddles provide a window into what Barfield 

calls final participation. For Barfield, final participation is a "man-centered participation" 

(Barfield 137) in which the world’s phenomena are understood to have meaning derived from 

our inner minds rather than the outer world. In other words, while in original participation man 

felt connected to the outer world and found meaning behind outward representations, today’s 

man finds meaning from within through his faculty of imagination. Thus, through works of 

creative expression like poetic riddles, man can use beta-thinking, or "reflective thinking" (25) 

to consider phenomena and actually participate with phenomena using the "unconscious part 

of ourselves" (137). Beta-thinking, or a conscious participation with phenomena, leads to final 

participation, which "enhances perception" of the world (138). Thus, because riddles and the 

process of solving riddles is an imaginative process that ultimately creates new meaning for 

the world’s phenomena through metaphor, riddles can be considered a mode for reaching final 

participation. Riddles, like expressionist art or Romantic poetry (Amrine 11/17), are 

meditative works of literature that engage the participant with the phenomena inwardly 

through an imaginative process. Furthermore, riddles force us to experience un-manifest 

concepts, whether they are the Sphinx’s man or the onion of The Exeter, as real and manifest 

in some new, meaningful way. 

Because in the modern world man considers consciousness to be an inner process 

rather than one that lies out in the world, imagination is a key method of participating with 

phenomena in a meaningful way. In original participation, riddles were deemed sacred or 

profound because they were an imaginative exercise that "drew near the beings and forces of a 

noumenous natural world" (Wilbur 46) that they felt was a part of their own consciousness in a 

real way. In today’s world of final participation, riddles ought to be considered a meaningful 

and poetic mode of imagination for a similar yet new reason, because the metaphors that 

riddles create provide a means of finding knowledge of reality throughout self-conscious 

participation with phenomena.Self-discovery through sexuality: beauty and sexuality in Once Upon a River and Look at Me

Is beauty a gift or a curse? Oftentimes we romanticize the idea that beautiful people have 

an easier time navigating the troubles of life, (at least easier than the rest of us stuck in the less 

beautiful world), yet both Jennifer Egan’s Look at Me and Bonnie Jo Campbell’s Once Upon a 

River complicate this conception of beauty as a necessarily advantageous thing. While Charlotte 

and Margo initially capitalize on their beauty as a tool for economic and sexual leverage, beauty 

ultimately overpowers their individual identity and prevents each woman from discovering her 

own sense of self beyond how others perceive her. That Campbell and Egan utilize sex and 

female sexuality as a means for Margo and Charlotte to successfully separate from the beauty 

identifier and discover their own identity questions stereotypical notions of how women ought to 

handle their beauty. 

In both novels, people reductively define Charlotte and Margo on the basis of their 

beauty. Unlike Margo, who seems to have little interest in her beauty, Charlotte truly enjoys 

being considered beautiful, and constantly works to enhance her beauty with make-up and 

clothes in order to be looked at. Even at a young age, Charlotte recalls how people "glanced, 

then looked– each time, I felt a prick of sensation within me…an unharnessed energy source; 

somehow I would convert them into power" (Egan 131). By becoming a fashion model, 

Charlotte harnesses the energy she derives from the powerful effect of her beauty on others, 

and makes a living off of her good looks. Contrasting with Margo, who seems disinterested and 


passive in the formation of her identification as a beauty, Charlotte actively works to identify 

herself by her beauty in this stage of her life. Ultimately, Charlotte’s entire identity becomes 

enveloped in this external, superficial power source she derives from the admiration of others; at 

this point she cannot discover her inner identity beyond her good looks because her beauty is the 

only thing that she, and subsequently everyone else, defines her by. 

Like Charlotte, Margo also becomes defined by others almost entirely by her 

beauty; every man she encounters on the river becomes immediately smitten with this beautiful, 

green-eyed girl. Campbell notes how the men who meet Margo along the river treat her "as 

though [they] wanted her not to be a person, exactly" (Campbell 240); Brian refers to Margo as 

his "dream girl. Prettiest damn thing on the river" (42); Michael, too, refers to her as a "dream" 

girl with "beautiful arms" (139); The Indian goes so far as to call Margo a "river spirit" (240). 

Thus, because of Margo’s rare beauty, the men who encounter her treat Margo as though she is a 

demigoddess, and create their own identity for her to inhabit. While Margo herself does not seem 

to derive any personal sense of power from her beauty as Charlotte does, Margo’s good looks are 

still intricately tied into her identity in that her beauty affects others, and provides her with rare 

sexual leverage in a world where virtually every man she meets becomes infatuated with her. 

Just as Charlotte capitalizes on her beauty by becoming a model, Margo, too, recognizes the 

effect of her physical appeal to these men and utilizes her attractiveness to essentially barter for 

things like protection and supplies on the river. Despite the fact that Margo never defines herself 

by her beauty, she passively allows men to define her in terms of her beauty, and even 

capitalizes on this identification. Because beauty plays such a large role in how others identify 

both Charlotte and Margo, each woman cannot ignore her beauty and chooses to capitalize on it 

for personal gain. While this may ostensibly seem positive, beauty ultimately hinders Charlotte 


and Margo in terms of their journey of self-discovery because each woman allows her outer 

beauty to make her inner self passive in the process of identity formation.

While both Charlotte and Margo do not necessarily choose to be beautiful, 

intricately tied to their beauty is their sexuality and how they choose to handle their sexual 

appeal to men. Beauty provides an obstacle in the formation of both Margo and Charlotte’s own 

identities, yet at the same time it helps light the path towards self-discovery by providing a 

means of accessing their unabashed sexuality and individual desire. Both women have telling 

sexual ordeals at a young age because of the more carnal appeal of their beauty: Margo is 

ostensibly "raped" by her Uncle Cal and Charlotte is very nearly forced into performing oral sex 

on an older man. Complicating these male-dominated situations, however, is the fact that each 

sexual situation serves as a vehicle for self-discovery by helping each woman realize their own 

sexuality in different ways. Despite the fact that Margo did not initiate or outright consent to 

Cal’s advances, Campbell recognizes that "she had not objected to Cal’s actions in the shed, had 

even been curious about what was happening" (Campbell 38) and thus cannot bring herself to 

initially identify the situation with Cal as rape. While Margo’s beauty draws Cal to her sexually, 

Campbell acknowledges that Margo comes to feel her own raw sexual urges and desires in this 

situation as well. Although Margo’s seemingly mystical beauty often unfairly defines her 

identity, in a complicated way her beauty opens the possibility to explore her sexual appetite and 

ultimately make her own decisions about how to handle her beauty and her sexuality. Despite 

opening Margo to the possibility of sexual pleasure, however, this complex episode with Cal 

early in Margo’s life underscores Margo’s emotional immaturity and confusion; despite the fact 

that Margo derives her own pleasure from this instance, she recognizes a year later that she did 

object to Cal’s sexual advances for reasons beyond her sexual arousal. Thus, this episode and her 


subsequent episodes with men provide learning experiences for Margo on her path to self-
discovery, giving her the tools to reconcile her undeniable sexual desire and her desire to 

understand herself independent from her beauty and the effect it has on men. 

Charlotte has a similar sexual situation in her young adult life with an older man, yet 

the context of the dramatic situation proves entirely different than the Margo and Cal episode. 

Unlike Margo, who passively allows her natural beauty to attract Cal without her asking for 

it, Charlotte actively manipulates her beauty and her sensuality to attract various men. Young 

Charlotte, brazenly proud of her physical and sexual maturity as a teenager, actively seeks 

out an older man with whom she could experience something she feels she "deserved to feel" 

(Egan 15). Purposely wearing a "low-cut dress…for Mr. Lafant’s entertainment" (15), Charlotte 

intentionally tempts the older man with her beauty, until he forces himself on her and she panics. 

Ultimately, Charlotte involves herself in a sexual situation she clearly feels uncomfortable with 

because she has come to superficially identify herself as a mature "siren" (15) that ought to act in 

such a manner. While Margo does not plan her sexual encounter with Cal but finds some curious 

pleasure in the act, Charlotte does plan her sexual encounter but finds revulsion in the act. In 

this instance, although it seems that Charlotte pursues sexual desires for herself, she also proves 

her immaturity by merely projecting some ideal of a how a beautiful, sexual girl should act with 

older men. Thus, this sexual encounter underscores Charlotte’s superficial desire to adhere to her 

idealized role as a beauty rather than discover her true, more meaningful desires for herself. 

Because of the sexual appeal of their beauty, both Margo and Charlotte continue to 

actively pursue sexual experiences that allow them to recognize their more carnal impulses; 

ultimately both women use sexual experiences to discover more about themselves separately 

from the effect of their beauty and sexuality on others. After having an emotionally casual yet 


sexually satisfying affair in France, Charlotte realizes that, "My affair with Henri had pushed 

something open in me, and now I felt ravenous, in constant danger of going hungry" (Egan 83). 

From here, Charlotte continues to actively pursue sexual desires with men as a means of filling 

that ineffable hunger within her. Despite these affairs, however, Charlotte never derives anything 

beyond pure physical pleasure from sex, which aligns with the superficial lifestyle she lives as a 

beautiful model. The pursuit of her own sexual and emotional desire with Anthony Halliday, 

however, provides the impetus Charlotte needs to start recognizing her own sense of self beyond 

the superficial lifestyle she previously had. While at first Charlotte admits to merely pursuing her 

physical desire when she decides to have sex with an unconscious Halliday, "(such was my 

desperation)" (338), it is through this entirely independent act of personal agency that Charlotte 

discovers a real emotion within herself: she loves Halliday. Left vulnerable without make-up to 

hide the ugly scars of her car accident, Charlotte exposes herself beyond her beauty in this 

episode with Halliday, pursing her own emotional desire to finally acknowledge an 

"indestructible" (339) emotional truth about herself. Although various sexual affairs with other 

men throughout the book prove carnally satisfying, Charlotte ultimately uses sex with Halliday 

as the catalyst for understanding the more intense self-satisfaction of recognizing her own 

emotions and identity beyond her beauty. 

Like Charlotte, Margo also actively pursues her own sexual experiences to satisfy her 

sexual appetite, and Campbell structures Margo’s entire journey of self-discovery episodically 

around her sexual encounters with men. Margo refuses to ignore her sexual impulses throughout 

the novel, and actually initiates sex with Brian, Michael, and the Indian. Throughout these 

sexual encounters, however, Margo has still not established her own sense of self, and each man 

that she has a sexual relationship with attempts to project their ideal version of Margo/Maggie/

Margaret Louise/Nymph/Spirit/Dream Girl onto her. Margo ultimately tires of the identities the 

men ascribe to her because of her beauty, questioning: "Why do guys always want to make a girl 

into something other than what she is?" (Campbell 240). Here, Margo first recognizes that while 

the sexual appeal of her beauty provides her with access to her raw sexual desire, she wants to 

be seen as a person beyond her beauty and her sexuality. While Margo clearly enjoys sex and 

refuses to suppress her sexual appetite, she exhibits her growing maturity when she discovers 

that she needs to remove herself from the often comforting and carnally satisfying men she meets 

and focus on discovering her independent sense of self. When Margo acknowledges her physical 

attraction to Johnny but understands that her sexual attraction to a man can be a deterrent on her 

path to "making any sense of her life" (271), she discovers for the first time that her identity lies 

beyond the effect of her outward beauty on others and her sexual impulses. Thus, through sexual 

discovery, Charlotte and Margo both start playing an active role in their identity formation, with 

Charlotte realizing the potential of forming an identity and a life outside of her more superficial 

beauty, and with Margo realizing the need for independence.

That both Egan and Campbell tell stories featuring two beautiful women unapologetically 

exploring their sexuality to discover their independence helps shatter stereotypical notions of 

beautiful woman. With a beautiful female character, expectations are that she either manipulate 

men with her beauty or passively acquiesce to the men drawn to her sexual appeal. Initially, 

Charlotte and Margo both conform these expectations, with Charlotte actively enhancing 

and utilizing her beauty to attract others and with Margo passively accepting the identity of a 

beautiful demigoddess that men ascribe to her. As each woman continues to explore her own 

sexuality, however, Charlotte and Margo deviate from expectations. For Charlotte, when she 

actively pursues Halliday for herself emotionally, she realizes the superficiality of trying to live 

in that "mirrored room" (Egan 140) at the top of the modeling world, where "being observed 

felt like an action, the central action—the only one worth taking" (133), and instead takes 

control of her emotions and identity. For Margo, she learns from her own initiation of various 

sexual encounters that she has within her the confidence and self-awareness to object to the men 

drawn to her beauty and instead focus on making mature, independent decisions for herself. 

While beauty is invariably part of how others see them, Charlotte or Margo learn to discover 

themselves beyond this identifier through their sexuality; that Egan and Campbell use sex as a 

catalyst for self-discovery provides an unexpected yet effective means for Charlotte and Margo 

to defy their beauty and use their personal agency to make decisions that may or may not fit the 

stereotype of how beautiful women tend to act. 

Beauty is a complicated gift and curse for both Margo and Charlotte; while it opens the 

door to sexual exploration, each woman must navigate through her own desires, sexual and 

otherwise, to establish a sense of self beyond the effect of her beauty and sexuality on others. 

While neither novel concludes with a complete identity resolution for either Margo or Charlotte, 

both Once Upon a River and Look at Me end optimistically, with each woman on the path to self-
discovery. That Charlotte separates herself entirely from the life of "Charlotte Swenson," the 

highly public fashion model, and instead focus on her own life, and that Margo resolves to stay 

away from men for the time being and focus instead on learning to "crack herself open like a nut 

and know herself, at least" (Campbell 343), reveals how these strong, beautiful female characters 

can defy the stereotypes of their beauty and take control over their lives and their identities.