
I can’t believe they are all right. Every obscure, 19th

translated French pronoun, every acronym and abbreviation and antonym filled neatly into 

each respective box of the Sunday Times crossword puzzle. Not a single mark of scribbled 

hesitation. I fold down my grandmother’s New York Times, glancing over at her nightstand. An 

old tissue falls to the carpet. I run my fingers over empty Diet Coke cans, a flimsy piece of fabric 

that was once a lady’s bra, and a photo of my brother Max, cousin Brian and I laughing in the 

grass in Marblehead, Massachusetts. I’m no more than four. Mama sits in her chair, letting her 

unmanicured hands fold neatly on top of her lap, and asks me again “so where are you now in 

your life my Amy?” I smile at my mom as she quietly, dutifully cleans up the discarded tissues 

and moves onto the unwashed sweatpants in a heap on the floor. “I’m going to be a senior at the 

University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Mama,” I repeat again.

 century literary reference, every 


Sydelle Ross was born to Russian immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York in 1920. 

The stories from her life dazzle before me as I sit on her lap, tracing the outline of a shell. I am 

eight or nine, and we sit together on her terrace in Hollywood Beach, Florida. 

“Once, as I was walking through Central Park on my way back to the Upper West Side, 

I felt the stares of several men. I was, of course, flattered. But then the stares became more 

persistent. I wondered, ‘is my skirt tucked into my underwear? Do I have something in my 

teeth?’ ” Mama pauses, drawing a sharp line down my back with her pointer finger. It sends a 

shock down my spine, as usual. Zeeeek! I imagine her walking through the park, all Manhattan 

glamour with her dark hair coiffed in the same short, flattering cut of the black and white self-
portrait that hangs in her apartment.

“Turns out, Joe DiMaggio was also walking through the park that day, right in front of 

me. Ha!” We laugh together, Mama and I, and I wonder to myself who Joe DiMaggio is.



I used to sneak downstairs to the guest room early in the mornings when Mama stayed 

with us in New Jersey. I would tuck my pillow under my arm and slide under the covers, waiting 

for her to recognize my tiny body beside her. She would feign sleep, telling me several years 

later that she had always heard me, pitter-pattering down those stairs. Her radio would be playing 

the morning segments on NPR, and we would lay and listen together. I would ask her whatever 

ten year olds ask their grandmothers about: if her hair was ever longer, why she liked Spearmint 

Lifesavers so much, how my mom was as a kid. She would answer, peppering in her own 

selection of stories from a life strange and far from the bed we laid in together.



Mama grew up loving politics. “It’s your duty to know, Sydelle” her father would tell 

her before she walked to school in the mornings. I struggle, imagining Mama as a little girl in 

the 1930s. A sworn atheist, the Democratic Party became her religion - FDR her God. Mama 

made it her duty to know: reading the paper, listening to the news, and participating in political 

life during the 40s, 50s, 60s. She had opinions on tax reform, opinions on abortion, opinions 

on the wars she lived through. Throughout her life, she carried her father’s sentiment with her, 

and eventually warned a 16-year-old me the same thing. I began taking AP Government more 

seriously.


“Do you do crosswords, my Amy Amy?” Mama fidgets with her thumb, swollen with 

age, rough now, like a sausage left out to dry. “You know, on my business trips I used to sit on 

the plane doing crossword puzzles. The men next to me would weigh in, then the men across the 

aisle. It was a great way to meet people.” 

So distant, her life then seems. I imagine. It’s World War II and her husband is off 

fighting somewhere in the South Pacific. She works as a secretary at McCall’s, then as a 

marketing specialist at TriChem. Her wages are half as much as men’s, yet her stakes twice as 

high. She has three children with the man she loves, only to have him die too young of Heart 

Disease when their youngest was only ten months old. Businessmen wine and dine her. She 

dates but never remarries, committing her life to her children and her work. She has affairs with 

married men. She chain-smokes cigarettes until she is 60. She finds solace in her glass of vodka, 

on the rocks, slice of orange, always served with a stirring straw. 


Mama seems surprisingly un-phased when we decide to FaceTime with my brother from 

my iPhone. He is at work in Charlotte, wearing Carolina blue at his desk at Bank of America 

Stadium. Max is a sports writer for the Carolina Panthers football team, but Mama can’t stop 

telling him how handsome he looks.

“Oh Mr. Max you look wonderful. This is truly amazing. IDLY! You know what that 

means?”


“You know, Mama, I don’t. What does it mean?” Max smiles, Mom and I look at each 

other and mouth along: 

“I-DO-LOVE-YOU!” Mama nearly shouts.

“IDLY to you too, Mama. I miss you.”

“Max, you know what I want to do? Next time you’re here. Let me take you out to a 

really nice dinner. We can eat and drink and talk about all the things happening in your life. I’m 

buying.”

“That sounds great Mama. I can’t wait. IDLY.”

Beep beep beep. The FaceTime ends and the screen goes black. Who knows how long it 

takes for the memory of the conversation to fade from her mind - maybe seconds. The thought 

of the dinner that can’t happen warms me: my 24-year-old brother, 58-year-old mother, 91-year-
old grandmother, and 21-year-old self sitting at a table, drinking, eating and laughing together, 

spanning generations. 


Mama was ready when she retired to Florida at the age of 70. Her apartment there was 

spacious and airy - a one-bedroom with just enough room for two rambunctious kids and a happy 

mother to visit in the summers. The kitchen had linoleum flooring that stuck to our bare feet 

when we came back from the beach for our toasted tuna fish sandwiches. The television blared 

Jeopardy in the evenings, Alex Trebek’s voice seeping into memories of evenings on Mama’s 

terrace, me in my Belle nightgown, Max with his mushroom haircut, all together watching boats 

float down the Intercoastal. The coffee table, sleek and low to the ground, always had a bowl 

of shells from Mama’s many walks along the shoreline. I used to sneak them into my pockets, 

thinking no one knew, later claiming the huge snail shell as my own beach discovery. Mama 

probably knew my secret. She knew everything.

Until, we discovered, she didn’t. Brian was twenty, visiting Mama with a good friend 

from college. It was summer and the boys wanted nothing but sun, sleep, and the occasional 

margarita. I imagine Mama, happy to play host, setting out her famous cocktail hour hors 

d’oeuvres of liver pate, spinach dip with carrots, and Hershey’s Hugs (never Kisses). She sits 

down with Brian, asks about his life at the University of Pittsburgh, about his girlfriends and his 

food preferences, then the same for Brian’s friend. She swishes vodka through her teeth, takes 

one last bite of pate smeared on a plain bagel chip and heads off to bed. It will be a couple of 

hours until she wakes up and hears noises. She will be startled, step into the living room, and 

yell. She will screech. WHO ARE THESE PEOPLE IN MY HOUSE? Brian will be afraid. Maybe 

he will cry, maybe he will stare blankly at the woman he thought he knew. He will head home 

to Massachusetts and Mama will eventually head there too, first to my aunt and uncle’s, then to 

Woodbridge Assisted Living in Peabody.


A poster hangs on the wall in Mama’s room at Woodbridge. It is small, with a clown-
faced man holding onto hundreds of primary colored balloons. He’s floating away, up 

through the vast whiteness of the page. At the bottom, the bold red text declares: “I have been 

everywhere. I have seen everything. But I remember nothing!” Mama loves this poster, and I 

love her for that.


“So where are you now my darling?” Mama asks me. We are sitting together in the hall 

outside of her shared room. She has been moved into this double only recently, after VA benefits 

and Social Security alone couldn’t cover it. Her meager savings from years of unfair wages have 

finally run dry. Rosie, her roommate, strikes me as a cold and bitter woman, but mostly keeps to 

herself. Mama will say hello, then whisper to me that she has lived twice the amount of life as all 

of the people in this damn place.

The couch in the hall is tough, durable if not comfortable, meant to last for ages. Mama 

doesn’t seem to mind it. Mom and I have our established routine: I take Mama outside while she 

cleans out the apartment - opening up windows to let in fresh air, replacing soiled bed quilts, and 

tossing out old bottles of Popov. 

“I’m at Michigan now Mama, studying English and Writing.”

“You know, I worked at a magazine in Manhattan once. McCall’s. And I lived there with 

Maury. We had fabulous friends. I love New York - it is the center of the world. Amy, where are 

we now?”

“Massachusetts, right near Aunt Phil’s house.”

“And what year is it?”

“2013, Mama.”

“2013. Gosh. Is Bush still president? You know I hate that man.”

“No Mama, he isn’t. Barack Obama has been president since 2008.”

“And what month is it?”

“It’s June, Mama. Look outside, it’s beautiful out.”

“Right. Right. So tell me, my Amy Amy, where are you now?”

“Michigan, Mama.”


Mama had been deceiving us all - she had sounded so cheerful on the phone. Sure, she 

was going to the beach less, but that was presumably due to her bad knee. Her appetite had 

decreased, but she always ate so little anyway. She was still driving. It wasn’t until Mom and 

Aunt Phil went down to her apartment after Brian’s visit and found the subtle disarray of the 

apartment - the unpaid bills, the spoiled cream on the counter - that they realized we had all 

been deceived by what we had hoped couldn’t be true. I was seventeen then, with other concerns 

about college applications and student government meetings. My grandma was still healthy, 

didn’t need a walker, knew Spanish drinking toasts and Japanese greetings. I couldn’t conceive 

of losing her or her mind, so I didn’t.


I take another look at the Times crossword puzzle on Mama’s bed. All correct.

“May you live every day of your life.” Mama wraps her frail arms around me. I feel the 

shape of her tiny chest press into my stomach, hers so shrunken, mine alive with youth. I marvel 

at my grandma, my Mama. Memories from a far away time dance through her head, filling up 

every corner of her mind - stories of independence and love and experience completely her own. 

And yet. Soon, she may not remember my name.

Pulling away from our embrace, I turn to leave her. Will she think about us later, 

sitting at her table in the dining hall? Will she dream about Mom and I tonight? Or will her mind 

slip into a reverie of her and Maury in their apartment in Manhattan? Does she even dream at all?

Today, I like to imagine that Mama’s story is one that has already been written. Her 

mind now, so strange and full of mystery, can only be classified as something else entirely. 

She is beyond that Sydelle, beyond my Mama. And it’s our visits with her that remind me of 


this shockingly painful reality, and of my own duties as her only granddaughter. It will always 

be hard, but now I have my own apartments to live in, jobs to have, life to live. And I have the 

amazing voice of my grandmother’s stories ringing in my ears.

Soon we are driving away, Mom and I, to continue living our every day, while my

Mama lives somewhere inside the glorious memories of a life well lived.