(An Admittedly Misleading Title for a Non-Science Paper on Defining Good Writing)

I don't know where this essay is going to be ten paragraphs from now. Neither (unless you cheat 

and scroll ahead) do you. 

Did you look ahead? 

It’s okay; now that you’re back, join me on my evolution from quasi-sycophantic freshman 

Great Books writer to the person sitting and writing this essay today (a hopefully less quasi-
sycophantic writer working with every paper, every blog post and every single piece of writing 

that I write to find my authentic voice. I’ll call this a "work in progress" for now…and probably 

for forever).

So, I bet you’re wondering about that freshman in Great Books. If you weren’t, now you are. The 

girl sitting behind her keyboard right now, talking to you, is a long way away from that 18-year-
old girl in her first college writing class. She’s eager to show off what words she can use; she’s 

excited to dive into some classic Literature with a capital "L"; she’s looking for an A on a paper 

about gods and men in Homer’s Iliad. Here, at the last sentence of the introduction paragraph, is 

that freshman girl’s thesis:

"Instances when the gods interact with great heroes on earth like Achilles and Hector 

help to illuminate both the glorious, heroic attributes of these mortal men and the petty 

single-mindedness of the gods." 

Not bad. The paper soon moves through various examples of gods as petty and mortal men as 

heroes. I suppose there’s no shocker there. Here, at the last sentence of that girl’s conclusion, is 

her big point:

"Ultimately, these portrayals of gods as petty and manipulative help to further glorify the 

heroic actions of mortals."

Nothing particularly groundbreaking there, considering she concludes with the same thing she 

starts with. Nothing lost, nothing gained. Yes, the assignment was only 3 pages, but still. My 

current self wonders if it took my past self more than 20 minutes to piece this bad boy together. 

No thought required: regurgitate evidence and submit.

Then again, there is really nothing wrong with that first essay. It had an (albeit fairly weak) 

argument, used evidence well, and received an A. But I still hate it, and I have a feeling that you 

Page break!

Because Good Writing, I have since figured out, should probably be a little hard. And that, I 

think, comes from a nuanced argument.

Everything I have ever written makes some sort of argument. And not just argument as the 

American Heritage Dictionary defines it:

ar·gu·ment – An angry discussion involving disagreement among the participants 

Yes, my argumentative papers from Political Science courses make an explicit argument (that 

perhaps some would get angry at and discuss for or against based on the classic definition of the 

word), but my tonal choice in a creative writing piece is also an argument that contributes to the 

story or poem’s meaning; my selected evidence for a research paper also reflects an argument 

of what I think is most important to demonstrate an idea; my theses are sometimes explicitly 

arguments, but are sometimes hidden in the prose of my creative nonfiction. Among all of 

those styles of writing there is at least some form of an argument being made and supported and 

nuanced by my style, evidence, and structural choices.

So that "hard" part that I referred to earlier is making that argument more than just a rehashing 

of some basic idea. Good Writing ought to find a way to really say something. Good arguments 

involve a higher level of engagement with the topic being researched or explored via the mode 

of writing. And that engagement can only happen for me if I go into a writing assignment with a 

general idea, but then use writing as a process of discovery.

Coming to the same conclusion as I had in my original thesis for that Great Books paper is a 

great example of how NOT to discover anything while writing. 

To recap so far: Good Writing should be hard, because Good Writing should strive to make 

some sort of argument that pushes us all (writer and reader) to think deeper about the topic at 

Page break 2!

Later that year, that same freshman girl took a class about the concept of reality. It was in that 

class that She was slowly becoming more and more like Me. The professor of that course didn’t 

believe in grades, and, for the first time in my life, I had the chance to learn entirely for the sake 

of learning. I wrote an essay (with no length or structural requirement) describing how I felt 

about reality; by the semester’s end, I ended up with some stuff like this:

"Although sensory experiences are necessary for our own experience of the world, it is 

the process of sharing experiences that helps to mesh 

individual perceptions into a larger truth of experiences are "real." Thus, to refer to the 

age-old question that we harped on in class: if a tree falls in a forest and no one is there to 

see/hear it, does it make a sound? Without any sensory confirmation of the falling tree, 

how can we know if it even exists at all to make a noise? Based on this logic, it seems 

reasonable to assert that the tree only comes into existence when a human experiences 

and perceives it; in other words, the reality of the tree relies on human recognition of said 

tree."

I struggled with these concepts, and, through writing, wondered:

"I may initially believe that something exists and is real, but without the collective 

confirmation given by those around me, it is impossible to be sure. But this gets to a 

deeper question: are there some permanent underlying particles that constitute reality and 

exist regardless of this process of sensory experience and confirmation?" 

I continued to show signs of intellectual struggle, grappling with heavy ideas that I had never 

grappled with before. By the end of the paper, I was able to continue questioning and say:

"Individual perception and interpretation are the only means of forming a view of reality, 

and without those aspects, reality as we know it ceases to exist. Perhaps, however, 

there is another way to interpret reality, and instead of a lack of reality beyond human 

perception, there is some other reality that we simply cannot perceive that exists beyond 

human interpretation."

Woah! You may be saying. I know that I had spent many hours with this essay. Thinking, 

researching, writing, rewriting - really using the paper as a channel to learn and discover 

something new. The language is still not perfect; the tone isn’t how I would have written it 

today; but the paper is something both Past Me and Present Me can agree is a much better work 

of brainpower. She and Me were really coming together.

Because Good Writing is just good thinking.

And the writing you and I both enjoy reading is evidence of that statement as truth. Whether 

it’s a funny satire in The Onion or a Paul Krugman article on the economy, you can just tell that 

writing is good because there is a good thinker doing some good heavy mental lifting behind the 

keyboard through his or her process. 

Sure, a writer could have a nicely polished piece of prose with excellent grammatical form and 

impressive words, but if that piece of prose didn’t challenge the writer to think and rethink and 

write and rewrite, then the final result simply cannot be "Good." At least not by my definition.

To recap for you: Good Writing should be hard, and can only come from a place of deep 

thinking. The prose is only as strong as the argument it is applying to.

Page break 3!

As a sophomore, I learned how to write a research paper in the social sciences (think 

Introduction, Data, Findings, Discussion); I took a creative writing class and wrote poems and 

short stories with various points of view and character arcs; I started writing about writing in 

Writing 220. "Writing" and "text" became terms as nuanced as "argument." Real, meaningful 

writing that challenged the Five-Paragraph-Essay form became harder to achieve, but I continued 

to expand my conception of forms of arguments. 

In a strange twist, I ended up writing a piece in my junior year that had a form given to me. 

It was an imitation essay, riffing off of Jamaica Kincaid’s Girl. My writing-as-discovery wasn’t 

as obvious in this as it had been with, say, my reality paper, but I did learn more about Kincaid’s 

intentions via writing my own version of her. I also learned how to craft an argument using 

subtlety. And how to use humor to say something potentially serious. (Not to mention more 

about how far I could push myself into unknown writing territory…2 pages of writing semicolon 

after semicolon? Awesome.):

"When I tell a joke, you laugh…hard; laugh like you just watched your grandmother 

trip up the stairs; laugh like you mean it, because you should mean it; don’t look at 

that woman in the low-cut dress walking past us in the grocery store; don’t ever try to 

argue that your alma matter is better than my alma matter, because it is not; on Sundays 

please remember that, while I know you think football is important, so is that re-run of 

Top Chef that I need to watch; always wear that cologne I bought you; don’t ever wear 

that pink shirt that says "I’m with stupid"—yes the one your mother got you—it is both 

emasculating and sexist; did you think I wouldn’t notice when you put that dirty fork in 

the drawer without washing it?; don’t ignore me…"

I had discovered that Good Writing does not require a pure blank and BAM – the writing 

process makes some intelligent discovery simply happen. A lot of my favorite writing has come 

from prompts that provide a form and structure, giving scaffolding to hang my own ideas off of. 

By the way, if you are reading this sentence because you just scrolled down after my opening 

line, tsk tsk tsk. Scroll back up! If you have reached this point via organic, linear reading, 

continue on.

Sometimes, as was the case for the Kincaid riff, my Good Writing comes from a magical sit-
down at the keyboard after the lighting of a good idea strikes me…several hours will pass and 

I will have done something with a lot of raw potential. You may think Hey! That doesn’t seem 

very hard…and that was your first point about Good Writing, wasn’t it!? Well yes, you are right. 

But what’s a good argument without a little room for contradiction?

This was the also case for my essay titled "Mama"; it was a creative nonfiction piece written in 

my senior year about my maternal grandmother with dementia. It was a labor of real love. I had 

plenty of material to work with, and the words spilled out of me. That first draft was Okay, but 

what made that essay Good was when I took the time to revisit what I had written and reflect at 

the essay’s end:

"Pulling away from our embrace, I turn to leave her. Will she think about us later, sitting 

at her table in the dining hall? Will she dream about Mom and I tonight? Or will her 

mind slip into a reverie of her and Maury in their apartment in Manhattan? Does she even 

dream at all?

Today, I’d like to imagine that Mama’s story is one that has already been written. Her 

mind now, so strange and full of mystery, can only be classified as something else 

entirely. She is beyond that Sydelle, beyond my Mama. And it’s our visits with her 

that remind me of this shockingly painful reality, and of my own duties as her only 

granddaughter. It will always be hard, but now I have my own apartments to live in, jobs 

to have, life to live. And I have the amazing voice of my grandmother’s stories ringing in 

my ears.

Soon we are driving away, Mom and I, to continue living our every day, while my Mama 

lives somewhere inside the glorious memories of a life well lived." 

This is a conclusion I had never thought of; one that was as painful to realize in my mind as it 

had been to write. But I could not have gotten there without the writing process. And that "good 

thinking" came into play when crafting my final "argument." Yes, the one I had no idea I would 

come to at the onset of the essay.

One last recap: Good Writing should be hard and is really just good thinking. But sometimes, 

the writing process seems easy (or even magical). This, I think, can only come from having done 

a lot of thinking about the topic at hand previously, and even then, writing still leaves room for 

more discoveries via the process itself.

Page break 4!

Of course, it’s really hard to say what Good Writing is, really. People have different tastes. 

People will argue with arguments and find fault with structural decisions and question word 

choices. People may even stop reading out of boredom (even in this case…but bare with me, I’m 

almost done).

But, for me, my Good Writing always starts with a spark. Something to get me interested. 

Sometimes it’s just a first line of text or sometimes it a very general idea – but it always starts 

with something that excites me. Then, it takes work. This is the part that is the most dread 

inducing, but that heavy lifting is what makes the final product Good versus Just Okay or even 

Bad Bad Bad. 

For my Capstone Project, I already have that spark. I have a topic I am passionate about and 

plenty of material to work with. I have the amazing recordings of my paternal grandparents 

discussing their experience in Poland and Germany during the Holocaust. They are survivors, 

and I am a member of the last generation to have experienced their generation directly. They 

were my grandparents. They played with me on the lawn, gave me chocolates and dolls, led our 

Passover seders. And as a tribute to them, I am going to really engage with their stories. Do more 

than just retell who they are, but explore what it really means to remember, and how history 

and pop culture may shift their legacy and the way we perceive and react to the Holocaust as 

a culture that’s slowly growing up. I have a responsibility to handle this topic with a lot of 

good thinking, and I hope that the result will prove to be Good Writing that makes you think, 

question, and engage with the topic yourself, as I had.

Because in the end, for me, Good Writing is really a process of discovery. For writer and for 

reader. For both of us.