Riddle me this: how riddles contribute to final participation

There is no question that the ancient Greeks have greatly contributed to western 

civilization, providing insight into theories of government, philosophy, athletics, and even 

riddles. While riddles may seem a non-sequitor in this litany of profoundly significant aspects 

of life today, riddles have a more significant power than one may initially assume. One of the 

most famous riddles from Greek mythology, posited by the Sphinx to all the people of Thebes, 

reads as follows: “Which creature in the morning goes on four legs, at mid-day on two, and 

in the evening upon three, and the more legs it has, the weaker it be?” Stumped? It takes a 

certain faculty of mind to ascertain the answer to such a riddle, and the legendary Oedipus 

solves it with this response: “Man—who crawls on all fours as a baby, then walks on two feet 

as an adult, and then walks with a cane in old age.” Can solving the enigma of a truly good 

riddle such as this one have the power to effectively change your perception of the essence of 

something? Through what Aristotle called the “active mind” (Amrine 10/6) or what we may 

call imagination, good riddles function as poetry does in that both utilize language to create 

metaphors that open prescient minds to new meanings of the world’s phenomena. Under the 

larger umbrella of poetry, riddles add to our notion of reality as a means of contributing to 

Owen Barfield’s concept of final participation.

In order to begin discussing the importance of riddles today, it is necessary to 

investigate the history of the social and literary merit of riddles. While in the present day 

riddles are mostly viewed as simple and amusing puzzles that “take themselves lightly” 

(Wilbur 32), such was not always the case. In primitive societies, riddles as an oral tradition 

functioned as a means of providing new insight into the reality of life. While early tribal 

societies often used riddles “playfully” (33), they were never considered trivial in their 

merit. For primitive tribal communities, to answer a riddle correctly was to “see the peculiar 

qualities of an object or creature…and to have insight into the relatedness of all phenomena, 

the reticulum of the world” (33-34). Here, the function of the riddle goes beyond simple 

playfulness, and rather crosses into the threshold of the imaginative world, contributing to a 

greater consciousness of phenomena. Riddles were considered deeply spiritual and powerful, 

insofar that they were often used as a means of “settling disputes and the winning of brides, 

burial rites, fertility rite, and other religious” experiences (34). Because solving a riddle 

provided a means of approaching the sacred meaning of the things themselves, riddles were an 

integral part of life for primitive people. 

That riddles deeply affected the primitive man’s consciousness of reality pays homage 

to Owen Barfield’s concept of original participation in Saving the Appearances. Primitive 

people, Barfield argues, experienced phenomena as “outside” of themselves (Barfield 41), and 

thus had a kind of original participation with the phenomena of the world. Their experience 

of the world was that representations of phenomena contain meaning behind them, “which is 

of the same nature as me” (42). In this active participation between man and the world around 

him, man “is the totem” he is experiencing, and has an “extra-sensory participation” with 

representations being both outer and part of himself (32). Thus, for a primitive man or woman 

to understand the answer to a riddle was a means for that person to understand a deeper reality 

within their own consciousness. To be able to describe the “spirit” of things in the form of a 

riddle was seen as a profoundly religious or even sacred act of experiencing the phenomena of 

the world because the participatory consciousness of primitive people held that inner and outer 

phenomena were interconnected to their consciousness of the world.

Beyond the function of riddles in more primitive cultures, it is clear that riddles were 

considered to have more literary merit throughout the development of Western civilization. 

For the ancient Greeks, riddles were considered a poetic form, held by high esteem and 

utilized by notable minds including “Pindar [and] Theocritus” (34). Aristotle’s Poetics 

goes on to “treat the riddle with respect” (35) by defining the riddle as a type of poetry that 

utilizes metaphor, what he considered the highest form of language. In the part XXII of the 

Poetics, Aristotle elucidates, “the essence of a riddle is to express true facts under impossible 

combinations” (Aristotle, XXII). This seems to be a rather straightforward, standard definition 

of the function of a riddle, noting how riddles use figurative words and descriptions to 

illustrate some literal thing in an unusual or enigmatic way. Aristotle notes, however, that 

such a form cannot rely on “any arrangement of ordinary words” (Aristotle, XXII), but rather 

utilizes the linguistic power of metaphor. For Aristotle, the making of metaphor is, “the 

mark of genius, for to make good metaphors implies an intuitive perception of the similarity 

in dissimilars” (Poetics, XXII). Thus, for Aristotle to consider successful riddles to be the 

effective use of metaphor was to place the riddle form into the realm of high poetry. In fact, 

if one fast-forwards thousands of years to The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics, 

modern authorities on poetry continue to define the “riddle” in terms of metaphor, explaining 

that the riddle is “essentially a metaphor which draws attention to likenesses between unrelated 

objects” (Preminger 711). 

Looking at the ancient Greek riddle of the Sphinx mentioned earlier, one can see how 

the mythic riddle relies on metaphor to describe the various stages of man’s life. The first 

piece of the riddle, “What walks on four legs in the morning light,” contains two metaphors: 

the four legs metaphorically represent a crawling infant, and the morning light represents the 

early stages of life. There are many things one may think of when considering the category of 

creatures that “walks on four legs,” such as dogs, tigers, turtles, or other four-legged animals, 

so comparing something that walks on four legs to an infant takes a certain mental faculty, 

namely imagination, that is also used when understanding metaphors. The second half of the 

riddle, which reads, “On two at noontide, and on three at night” again relies on metaphor. By 

the end of the riddle, one can see that the phenomenon of the rising and setting of the sun 

provides the metaphor of a human lifespan. Furthermore, upon solving the riddle one can 

see that the various, X-legged creatures are all metaphors for how man walks: on all fours 

in infancy, on two solid legs in maturity, and on two legs and a cane by man’s elder years. 

Riddles in general work in this metaphorical fashion, stressing similarities and differences 

and finally using the juxtaposition of both to create meaning. That riddles such as this ancient 

Greek example are metaphoric is what makes them both puzzling and profound. In order to 

obtain the meaning of this riddle, or any riddle, one must reach beyond typical associations 

with categorical concepts of phenomena.

Around the fourth century, riddle making became more apparently literary with 

Symphosius’s series of Latin riddles, which were in the form of “three-line hexameters” 

(Wilbur 35). Here, there is a literal yoking of a clearly poetic meter and rhyme scheme with 

the riddle form, while also using the academic language of Latin. One version of a riddle from 

Symphosius, translated by Richard Wilbur, is, “Four equal sisters equidistant run/ As if they 

vied in strength and speed, but none/ Gains on another, and their task is one” (Wilbur 35). 

This enigmatic riddle clearly utilizes metaphor by selectively stressing certain aspects of the 

“sisters” while excluding other aspects of what they are a metaphor for. The answer to this 

riddle is “rotae,” (35) or wheels. Symphosius seamlessly turns the four wheels of a cart into 

four competing sisters through the use of metaphor. The mental process that we go through to 

arrive at the answer to such a riddle provides an example of how a truly powerful riddle can 

push us to use our imaginations in a new way, to conceive of phenomena in an entirely new 

Moving through the history of riddles, the Middle Ages provided the English speaking 

world with The Exeter Book, which is “ninety-odd anonymous riddles in the Anglo-Saxon 

tongue” (Wilbur 35) that is considered one of the oldest pieces of recorded English literature. 

One great riddle from this collection is the twenty-fifth, which is translated as follows:

I am a wondrous creature: to women a thing of joyful expectation, to close-
lying companions serviceable. I harm no city-dweller excepting my slayer 

alone. My stem is erect and tall--I stand up in bed--and whiskery somewhere 

down below. Sometimes a countryman's quite comely daughter will venture, 

bumptious girl, to get a grip on me. She assaults my red self and seizes my 

head and clenches me in a cramped place. She will soon feel the effect of her 

encounter with me, this curl-locked woman who squeezes me. Her eye will be 

wet. (Crossley-Holland)

The key to solving this riddle again is to get an understanding of the underlying metaphor, 

and ultimately discern the answer to be an onion. Clearly, there is an underlying sexual 

innuendo utilized in the description of the onion, in order to conflate two seemingly unrelated 

categories. Thus, this riddle provides a new mode of thinking about an onion, by comparing 

it to a completely unrelated aspect of life. The connection between all of the riddles discussed 

so far lies in the eloquent use of metaphor to create meaning; despite the lack of modernity of 

these riddles, all remain truly effective and have lasting power because the interal metaphor 

resonates with the reader. Based on these examples, it becomes apparent that primitive 

cultures, ancient Greek civilization, and the people of the Middle Ages all appreciated the 

powerful appeal of riddles that clearly still contain a considerable amount of wit and resonance 

As compared to the value placed on riddles in these more remote pasts, riddles today 

seem to have lost some merit, often ranked as “folk” or “popular” (Wilbur 37) rather than 

literary. One really interesting development that Wilbur notes in his essay on riddles is that 

the devolution of riddles from literary to “parlor diversions” (38) happens around the same 

time of the scientific revolution, when “objects and creatures of the physical world were more 

and more generally conceived of mere mechanisms…discernable only by mathematics” (39). 

This neatly maps onto Barfield’s argument in Saving the Appearances, in which Barfield 

claims that original participation becomes separated from the consciousness of man after the 

Middle Ages with the onset of the scientific revolution and empiricist theories of knowledge. 

In the Middle Ages, to think about phenomena was, “to look at and to think about them as 

appearances—representations” and then achieve knowledge of the phenomena by “an act of 

union with the represented behind the representation” (Barfield 87). Thus, words and names 

had meaning in themselves, “in much the same solid-feeling way as things are” (86), and 

riddles fit into this concept. Riddles in medieval times would have been considered a 

powerful form of art because the participating consciousness of medieval people, similarly to 

the consciousness of primitive people, apprehended the meaning of things themselves as 

representations, and thus could find real, significant meaning of phenomena in the metaphors 

created by riddles. 

Today, riddles often fall into the category of the “quaint” that Barfield discusses, 

becoming “pure fancy” (Wilbur 39), rather than a serious mode of thinking about the 

phenomena of the world. In fact, that oftentimes riddles today become associated with nursery 

rhymes shows the devolution of riddles into Barfield’s idea of “quaintness.” Wilbur argues 

that just as, “small children are animists” in that they give inanimate objects the power to 

have feelings or personalities, riddles are a form of animism in that they project life and 

consciousness onto outer inanimate objects (Wilbur 39). For the modern consciousness, 

this goes against “common sense” which relies on phenomena being “wholly dependant of 

consciousness” and inner (Barfield 72). Because riddles seemingly assign consciousness 

onto phenomena that supposedly only exist outside of our consciousness, the metaphors that 

give inanimate things animate consciousness in riddles seem almost silly to a modern person. 

Solving riddles in a time like the Middle Ages, however, would be considered significantly 

more meaningful and artful because of the participatory consciousness of such a time, in which 

riddles had the power to add meaning to people’s real consciousness of the phenomena of the 

Despite the change in human consciousness, however, riddles ought still to be treated 

as forms of literary merit because of how they make us use our imaginations to actually 

contribute to our consciousness of the world. Riddles have proven to have lasting power, as 

the aforementioned riddles have shown, because of their ability to force the reader to 

“decompose the vivid picture which we have insisted on making, and see through it to the 

answer” (Wilbur 42). Through the use of metaphor, good riddles function as good poetry in 

their ability to alter our sense of reality by adding new meaning to something. For example, a 

short folk riddle which reads, “Lives in winter/ Dies in summer, / And grows with its root 

upwards” (44), provides a new insight into the being of an icicle by combining and 

juxtaposing concepts to add meaning to the concept of an icicle. Here, an icicle becomes a 

living thing, and the riddle itself shakes the normal conception of icicles as merely frozen 

water to something deeper. 

Rather than write riddles off as trivial, they ought to be classified as artful forms of 

poetry. Some may argue that riddles do not have a poetic form as compared to serious poetry 

and thus lack literary merit. Despite this, just as poetry written in prose form or free verse 

is still poetic, riddles need not be in iambic pentameter, or have a definite rhyme scheme, in 

order to be profound and meaningful. Rather, riddles hold poetic power in how they make 

readers consider things imaginatively by grappling with metaphors. Furthermore, in his essay 

titled “Bottom’s Dream: The Likeness of Poems and Jokes,” Howard Nemerov explains that 

poems must “seem very mysterious,” must “have an answer (=meaning) which is precise, 

literal, and total; that is, which accounts for every item in the poem,” and finally must also 

“remain very mysterious…[even] when you know the answer” (Nemerov). This definition 

of poetry may as well read “riddle” rather than “poem” based on the overlapping goals of 

both forms. Similarly, Edgar Allen Poe, the great American writer, defined poetry as “the art 

of making novel combinations,” (49), which also fits well with the function of riddles in that 

riddles combine and compare concepts to describe something in a new way. 

While certain riddles may seem too straightforward, lighthearted and flat, such as 

the modern classic, “what’s black and white and read all over? A newspaper,” good riddles 

function just as good poetry does, by sending us back into the riddle once we get the answer to 

get a greater understanding of the meaning of the answer. While flat riddles like that one die 

after one “gets it,” all of the aforementioned riddles have stood the test of time because they 

“provide employment, improvement and enjoyment to the mental faculties” (Landon 724) and 

continually offer insight and meaning into phenomena that otherwise would be lost. Just as 

Robert Burns’ famous poem A Red Red Rose, in which he writes, “Oh my love is like a red red 

rose” has stayed in literary fashion because the meaning he created through metaphor added 

a novel concept of what love can be, riddles also create new conceptual meaning. Thus, truly 

good riddles ultimately are a form of poetry because they provide a means of discovering a 

deeper understanding of phenomena through eloquent use of metaphor.

Furthermore, just as riddles function often as poems, the reverse is often true as well, 

in that poetry can also be read as a riddle of sorts. For example, the following poem by Robert 

Creeley functions in this matter:

If you wander far enough

you will come to it

and when you get there

they will give you a place to sit

for yourself only, in a nice chair,

and all your friends will be there

with smiles on their faces

and they will likewise all have places.

Here, it would be hard to even attempt to grasp the “meaning” of the poem without the poem’s 

title, which is “Oh No.” In this example, the title serves as a clue to the possible answer to the 

dramatic situation of this poem. What is the “it” being described? Why are people smiling 

in their “places” here? This poem can be read as a riddle of sorts because it asks the reader to 

figure out what is going on through metaphorical language. That the title is “Oh No” clues the 

reader into the potential for this poem to be describing a funeral parlor, or a bizarre heaven, or 

death in general, but the answer is left for interpretation. Another poem that utilizes the idea of 

a riddle is Sylvia Plath’s “Metaphors”:

I'm a riddle in nine syllables, 

An elephant, a ponderous house, 

A melon strolling on two tendrils, 

O red fruit, ivory, fine timbers! 

This loaf’s big with its yeasty rising. 

Money's new-minted in this fat purse. 

I'm a means, a stage, a cow in calf. 

I've eaten a bag of green apples, 

Boarded the train there's no getting off.

This poem provides for both straightforwardness and ambiguity, just as riddles do, in that one 

figures out that she is talking about her pregnant self, but whether or not she is proud or sad 

about this state of affairs is up for interpretation. Thus, these two poems highlight what may 

be considered a fundamental difference between poetry and riddles: poems will not provide a 

concrete answer like riddles do. 

Despite this assumption, however, riddles also contain multiple interpretations for 

answers and room for ambiguity, such as the following Anglo-Saxon riddle translated by 

I saw in a corner something swelling,

Rearing, rising, and raising its cover.

A lovely lady, a lord’s daughter, 

Buried her hands in that boneless body, 

Then covered with a cloth the puffed up creature. (Wilbur 37)

Here, the riddle’s answer is a loaf of bread, despite the fact that many may also feel as though 

the answer has some other, “off-color” (37) phallic reference. That riddles and poetry both 

“avoid the expected thing” (48) through a startling or deceptive use of metaphor shows how 

closely related these two concepts are, and how in fact riddles are a form of poetry.

In his introduction to Owen Barfield’s Poetic Diction, Howard Nemerov explains 

the importance of poetry by explaining that “language is the storehouse of imagination” 

(Poetic Diction, 23). By this, he implies that language, when functioning poetically, mediates 

“transition from the individualized, dreaming spirit that carried the infancy of the world,” (23) 

or what Barfield assumed was “original participation,” to “the individualized human spirit” 

of Barfield’s final participation (23). Good riddles, like all good poetry, create this palpable 

link to human imagination that helps us to perceive reality in a conscious way, while normally 

we perceive phenomena “at an unconscious level” (28). Throughout Poetic Diction, Barfield 

argues that true perception is derived from “language itself” and the “individualized mind 

of the poet,” and thus, reading and understanding poetic riddles can create a felt change of 

consciousness and provide a means of stepping, “towards a true, participant knowledge as 

distinct from the haphazard pull-and-push of ignorance which claims in public the name of 

science” (32). Thus, poetic riddles clearly have value as a means of achieving this participant 

Ultimately, that riddles function as poetry by using metaphor to create meaning 

to be ascertained by the imagination, proves that riddles provide a window into what Barfield 

calls final participation. For Barfield, final participation is a “man-centered participation” 

(Barfield 137) in which the world’s phenomena are understood to have meaning derived from 

our inner minds rather than the outer world. In other words, while in original participation man 

felt connected to the outer world and found meaning behind outward representations, today’s 

man finds meaning from within through his faculty of imagination. Thus, through works of 

creative expression like poetic riddles, man can use beta-thinking, or “reflective thinking” (25) 

to consider phenomena and actually participate with phenomena using the “unconscious part 

of ourselves” (137). Beta-thinking, or a conscious participation with phenomena, leads to final 

participation, which “enhances perception” of the world (138). Thus, because riddles and the 

process of solving riddles is an imaginative process that ultimately creates new meaning for 

the world’s phenomena through metaphor, riddles can be considered a mode for reaching final 

participation. Riddles, like expressionist art or Romantic poetry (Amrine 11/17), are 

meditative works of literature that engage the participant with the phenomena inwardly 

through an imaginative process. Furthermore, riddles force us to experience un-manifest 

concepts, whether they are the Sphinx’s man or the onion of The Exeter, as real and manifest 

in some new, meaningful way. 

Because in the modern world man considers consciousness to be an inner process 

rather than one that lies out in the world, imagination is a key method of participating with 

phenomena in a meaningful way. In original participation, riddles were deemed sacred or 

profound because they were an imaginative exercise that “drew near the beings and forces of a 

noumenous natural world” (Wilbur 46) that they felt was a part of their own consciousness in a 

real way. In today’s world of final participation, riddles ought to be considered a meaningful 

and poetic mode of imagination for a similar yet new reason, because the metaphors that 

riddles create provide a means of finding knowledge of reality throughout self-conscious 

participation with phenomena.