Ode to oil, fast cars, and freedom

I hope you know, we are not proud to be doing this. 

But we the disgruntled, the growing minority, the hopeless fossil fuel lovers, are 

finally lashing out against your energy rationing ways and your ruthless campaign to limit our 

Like socialists, communists, Marxists—you continue to yell at us to use less water while 

we brush our teeth (but the faucet is such a pain to turn on and off and on and off), to take shorter 

showers (one is never truly clean unless they shower for 30 minutes or more), and to stop driving 

our luxury Hummer 3s (have you seen the horsepower on those things?!). Enough is enough—

we have gathered from far and wide, even knocking down trees to pave more direct roads if we 

had to, to stand up to your bullying and say NO to your outlandish demands.

Yes, you can rally in grassy parks, wearing all-natural hemp shirts and hugging your oh-
so-beloved trees. But we will fight our fight from the comfort of our new luxury condominiums, 

built on the plot of land where that endangered bird species used to live, cranking the thermostat 

up to 75 degrees Fahrenheit despite the balmy spring weather and –would you pass the plastic 

bottle of water that I plan to take one sip out of then throw out, please?

When you say reduce, we say increase!

When you say reuse, we say use once then buy another!

When you say recycle, we say just toss it in the trash, it’s easier!

Sure, some may call us irresponsible, wasteful, arrogant, and ignorant, but we say come 

check out the size of our carbon footprint.

Those fossilized animals from millions of years ago ought not to have died in vain. They 

would want us to burn them up as a quick source of un-renewable energy for our planes, trains, 

and giant SUVs. You say you fight for the rights of animals, but what about honoring those 

unfortunate ones who have become fossilized? Who are the ignorant ones, now? 

We reserve the right to leave our TVs on for the day so our dogs can watch their soaps, to 

use a Moped to get the newspaper inconveniently located at the bottom of our driveway, to sleep 

with every light on in the house to keep the night less dark and dreary. 

Go Green? You’re just green with envy. So get out of the carpool lane and join us. 

While our actions may be destroying the world for future generations—carpe diem. Let’s go do 

doughnuts with our Ducatis or tip over a Smart Car or two.

P.S., those solar panels are hideous.