Self-discovery through sexuality: beauty and sexuality in Once Upon a River and Look at Me

Is beauty a gift or a curse? Oftentimes we romanticize the idea that beautiful people have 

an easier time navigating the troubles of life, (at least easier than the rest of us stuck in the less 

beautiful world), yet both Jennifer Egan’s Look at Me and Bonnie Jo Campbell’s Once Upon a 

River complicate this conception of beauty as a necessarily advantageous thing. While Charlotte 

and Margo initially capitalize on their beauty as a tool for economic and sexual leverage, beauty 

ultimately overpowers their individual identity and prevents each woman from discovering her 

own sense of self beyond how others perceive her. That Campbell and Egan utilize sex and 

female sexuality as a means for Margo and Charlotte to successfully separate from the beauty 

identifier and discover their own identity questions stereotypical notions of how women ought to 

handle their beauty. 

In both novels, people reductively define Charlotte and Margo on the basis of their 

beauty. Unlike Margo, who seems to have little interest in her beauty, Charlotte truly enjoys 

being considered beautiful, and constantly works to enhance her beauty with make-up and 

clothes in order to be looked at. Even at a young age, Charlotte recalls how people “glanced, 

then looked– each time, I felt a prick of sensation within me…an unharnessed energy source; 

somehow I would convert them into power” (Egan 131). By becoming a fashion model, 

Charlotte harnesses the energy she derives from the powerful effect of her beauty on others, 

and makes a living off of her good looks. Contrasting with Margo, who seems disinterested and 


passive in the formation of her identification as a beauty, Charlotte actively works to identify 

herself by her beauty in this stage of her life. Ultimately, Charlotte’s entire identity becomes 

enveloped in this external, superficial power source she derives from the admiration of others; at 

this point she cannot discover her inner identity beyond her good looks because her beauty is the 

only thing that she, and subsequently everyone else, defines her by. 

Like Charlotte, Margo also becomes defined by others almost entirely by her 

beauty; every man she encounters on the river becomes immediately smitten with this beautiful, 

green-eyed girl. Campbell notes how the men who meet Margo along the river treat her “as 

though [they] wanted her not to be a person, exactly” (Campbell 240); Brian refers to Margo as 

his “dream girl. Prettiest damn thing on the river” (42); Michael, too, refers to her as a “dream” 

girl with “beautiful arms” (139); The Indian goes so far as to call Margo a “river spirit” (240). 

Thus, because of Margo’s rare beauty, the men who encounter her treat Margo as though she is a 

demigoddess, and create their own identity for her to inhabit. While Margo herself does not seem 

to derive any personal sense of power from her beauty as Charlotte does, Margo’s good looks are 

still intricately tied into her identity in that her beauty affects others, and provides her with rare 

sexual leverage in a world where virtually every man she meets becomes infatuated with her. 

Just as Charlotte capitalizes on her beauty by becoming a model, Margo, too, recognizes the 

effect of her physical appeal to these men and utilizes her attractiveness to essentially barter for 

things like protection and supplies on the river. Despite the fact that Margo never defines herself 

by her beauty, she passively allows men to define her in terms of her beauty, and even 

capitalizes on this identification. Because beauty plays such a large role in how others identify 

both Charlotte and Margo, each woman cannot ignore her beauty and chooses to capitalize on it 

for personal gain. While this may ostensibly seem positive, beauty ultimately hinders Charlotte 


and Margo in terms of their journey of self-discovery because each woman allows her outer 

beauty to make her inner self passive in the process of identity formation.

While both Charlotte and Margo do not necessarily choose to be beautiful, 

intricately tied to their beauty is their sexuality and how they choose to handle their sexual 

appeal to men. Beauty provides an obstacle in the formation of both Margo and Charlotte’s own 

identities, yet at the same time it helps light the path towards self-discovery by providing a 

means of accessing their unabashed sexuality and individual desire. Both women have telling 

sexual ordeals at a young age because of the more carnal appeal of their beauty: Margo is 

ostensibly “raped” by her Uncle Cal and Charlotte is very nearly forced into performing oral sex 

on an older man. Complicating these male-dominated situations, however, is the fact that each 

sexual situation serves as a vehicle for self-discovery by helping each woman realize their own 

sexuality in different ways. Despite the fact that Margo did not initiate or outright consent to 

Cal’s advances, Campbell recognizes that “she had not objected to Cal’s actions in the shed, had 

even been curious about what was happening” (Campbell 38) and thus cannot bring herself to 

initially identify the situation with Cal as rape. While Margo’s beauty draws Cal to her sexually, 

Campbell acknowledges that Margo comes to feel her own raw sexual urges and desires in this 

situation as well. Although Margo’s seemingly mystical beauty often unfairly defines her 

identity, in a complicated way her beauty opens the possibility to explore her sexual appetite and 

ultimately make her own decisions about how to handle her beauty and her sexuality. Despite 

opening Margo to the possibility of sexual pleasure, however, this complex episode with Cal 

early in Margo’s life underscores Margo’s emotional immaturity and confusion; despite the fact 

that Margo derives her own pleasure from this instance, she recognizes a year later that she did 

object to Cal’s sexual advances for reasons beyond her sexual arousal. Thus, this episode and her 


subsequent episodes with men provide learning experiences for Margo on her path to self-
discovery, giving her the tools to reconcile her undeniable sexual desire and her desire to 

understand herself independent from her beauty and the effect it has on men. 

Charlotte has a similar sexual situation in her young adult life with an older man, yet 

the context of the dramatic situation proves entirely different than the Margo and Cal episode. 

Unlike Margo, who passively allows her natural beauty to attract Cal without her asking for 

it, Charlotte actively manipulates her beauty and her sensuality to attract various men. Young 

Charlotte, brazenly proud of her physical and sexual maturity as a teenager, actively seeks 

out an older man with whom she could experience something she feels she “deserved to feel” 

(Egan 15). Purposely wearing a “low-cut dress…for Mr. Lafant’s entertainment” (15), Charlotte 

intentionally tempts the older man with her beauty, until he forces himself on her and she panics. 

Ultimately, Charlotte involves herself in a sexual situation she clearly feels uncomfortable with 

because she has come to superficially identify herself as a mature “siren” (15) that ought to act in 

such a manner. While Margo does not plan her sexual encounter with Cal but finds some curious 

pleasure in the act, Charlotte does plan her sexual encounter but finds revulsion in the act. In 

this instance, although it seems that Charlotte pursues sexual desires for herself, she also proves 

her immaturity by merely projecting some ideal of a how a beautiful, sexual girl should act with 

older men. Thus, this sexual encounter underscores Charlotte’s superficial desire to adhere to her 

idealized role as a beauty rather than discover her true, more meaningful desires for herself. 

Because of the sexual appeal of their beauty, both Margo and Charlotte continue to 

actively pursue sexual experiences that allow them to recognize their more carnal impulses; 

ultimately both women use sexual experiences to discover more about themselves separately 

from the effect of their beauty and sexuality on others. After having an emotionally casual yet 


sexually satisfying affair in France, Charlotte realizes that, “My affair with Henri had pushed 

something open in me, and now I felt ravenous, in constant danger of going hungry” (Egan 83). 

From here, Charlotte continues to actively pursue sexual desires with men as a means of filling 

that ineffable hunger within her. Despite these affairs, however, Charlotte never derives anything 

beyond pure physical pleasure from sex, which aligns with the superficial lifestyle she lives as a 

beautiful model. The pursuit of her own sexual and emotional desire with Anthony Halliday, 

however, provides the impetus Charlotte needs to start recognizing her own sense of self beyond 

the superficial lifestyle she previously had. While at first Charlotte admits to merely pursuing her 

physical desire when she decides to have sex with an unconscious Halliday, “(such was my 

desperation)” (338), it is through this entirely independent act of personal agency that Charlotte 

discovers a real emotion within herself: she loves Halliday. Left vulnerable without make-up to 

hide the ugly scars of her car accident, Charlotte exposes herself beyond her beauty in this 

episode with Halliday, pursing her own emotional desire to finally acknowledge an 

“indestructible” (339) emotional truth about herself. Although various sexual affairs with other 

men throughout the book prove carnally satisfying, Charlotte ultimately uses sex with Halliday 

as the catalyst for understanding the more intense self-satisfaction of recognizing her own 

emotions and identity beyond her beauty. 

Like Charlotte, Margo also actively pursues her own sexual experiences to satisfy her 

sexual appetite, and Campbell structures Margo’s entire journey of self-discovery episodically 

around her sexual encounters with men. Margo refuses to ignore her sexual impulses throughout 

the novel, and actually initiates sex with Brian, Michael, and the Indian. Throughout these 

sexual encounters, however, Margo has still not established her own sense of self, and each man 

that she has a sexual relationship with attempts to project their ideal version of Margo/Maggie/

Margaret Louise/Nymph/Spirit/Dream Girl onto her. Margo ultimately tires of the identities the 

men ascribe to her because of her beauty, questioning: “Why do guys always want to make a girl 

into something other than what she is?” (Campbell 240). Here, Margo first recognizes that while 

the sexual appeal of her beauty provides her with access to her raw sexual desire, she wants to 

be seen as a person beyond her beauty and her sexuality. While Margo clearly enjoys sex and 

refuses to suppress her sexual appetite, she exhibits her growing maturity when she discovers 

that she needs to remove herself from the often comforting and carnally satisfying men she meets 

and focus on discovering her independent sense of self. When Margo acknowledges her physical 

attraction to Johnny but understands that her sexual attraction to a man can be a deterrent on her 

path to “making any sense of her life” (271), she discovers for the first time that her identity lies 

beyond the effect of her outward beauty on others and her sexual impulses. Thus, through sexual 

discovery, Charlotte and Margo both start playing an active role in their identity formation, with 

Charlotte realizing the potential of forming an identity and a life outside of her more superficial 

beauty, and with Margo realizing the need for independence.

That both Egan and Campbell tell stories featuring two beautiful women unapologetically 

exploring their sexuality to discover their independence helps shatter stereotypical notions of 

beautiful woman. With a beautiful female character, expectations are that she either manipulate 

men with her beauty or passively acquiesce to the men drawn to her sexual appeal. Initially, 

Charlotte and Margo both conform these expectations, with Charlotte actively enhancing 

and utilizing her beauty to attract others and with Margo passively accepting the identity of a 

beautiful demigoddess that men ascribe to her. As each woman continues to explore her own 

sexuality, however, Charlotte and Margo deviate from expectations. For Charlotte, when she 

actively pursues Halliday for herself emotionally, she realizes the superficiality of trying to live 

in that “mirrored room” (Egan 140) at the top of the modeling world, where “being observed 

felt like an action, the central action—the only one worth taking” (133), and instead takes 

control of her emotions and identity. For Margo, she learns from her own initiation of various 

sexual encounters that she has within her the confidence and self-awareness to object to the men 

drawn to her beauty and instead focus on making mature, independent decisions for herself. 

While beauty is invariably part of how others see them, Charlotte or Margo learn to discover 

themselves beyond this identifier through their sexuality; that Egan and Campbell use sex as a 

catalyst for self-discovery provides an unexpected yet effective means for Charlotte and Margo 

to defy their beauty and use their personal agency to make decisions that may or may not fit the 

stereotype of how beautiful women tend to act. 

Beauty is a complicated gift and curse for both Margo and Charlotte; while it opens the 

door to sexual exploration, each woman must navigate through her own desires, sexual and 

otherwise, to establish a sense of self beyond the effect of her beauty and sexuality on others. 

While neither novel concludes with a complete identity resolution for either Margo or Charlotte, 

both Once Upon a River and Look at Me end optimistically, with each woman on the path to self-
discovery. That Charlotte separates herself entirely from the life of “Charlotte Swenson,” the 

highly public fashion model, and instead focus on her own life, and that Margo resolves to stay 

away from men for the time being and focus instead on learning to “crack herself open like a nut 

and know herself, at least” (Campbell 343), reveals how these strong, beautiful female characters 

can defy the stereotypes of their beauty and take control over their lives and their identities.