A common criticism of Foucault is that his conception of power, even if theoretically coherent, leads us to a practical standstill. If power is everywhere, after all, then true liberation is impossible. Any attempt at liberation will only lead to a reversal of roles: the oppressed form the new regime, and those who previously possessed power simply become its victim. If this is the case, why should anyone partake in activism at all? And if power and knowledge are so interrelated, on what epistemological basis can we discriminate between opposing regimes? 
As Rouse and Gandal reveal, all of these criticisms are flawed in their understanding of Foucault. Each is based on one or more incorrect presuppositions. Rouse and Gandal take two different approaches to undermine these arguments by addressing their mistaken assumptions. 
After a brief review of Foucault’s theories on the intertwined nature of power and knowledge, Rouse elaborates an explanation of Foucault’s understanding of sovereignty, and explains why his rejection of this sovereignty concerns Foucault’s critics. According to Rouse, Foucault delineates sovereignty in three ways. First, sovereignty is "a standpoint above or outside particular conflicts that resolves their competing claims into a unified and coherent system." Second, the prevailing question of sovereignty is the basis of its legitimacy. Last, sovereignty exercises a power that is always negative; it "prohibits, confiscates, or destroys," but does not create. But for Foucault, power is not something to be owned and brandished by one person or regime; it is dispersed through society as a whole. And a ruler or regime gaining the upper hand in power relations should not be mistaken as the legitimacy of a sovereignty being acknowledged by public consensus—as Rouse points out, in describing power relations, Foucault rejects any Hobbesian conceptualization of the social contract in favor of the metaphor of war. 
Critics of Foucault take issue with this. By rejecting any source of absolute political authority, they argue, we have no ground for resisting regimes; if no forms of power are authoritative or sovereign, on what basis do we establish new regimes? Rouse takes it one step further: "It is one thing to articulate and take up a stance on the political struggles in the midst of which one finds oneself situated historically. It is another thing altogether to seek an epistemic standpoint outside those ongoing conflicts from which that stance can be validated." That is, if power and knowledge and interdependent, and there is no absolute power, then how do we establish a standpoint of what Rouse terms "epistemic sovereignty"  by which to compare political regimes? Rejecting the possibility of sovereignty seems to lead to both a political and epistemological void.
Rouse presents an original solution via a simple explanation: Foucault conceives of power as dynamic. By this, Rouse means that power is not localized or static over time; it is continually expressed in ever-changing relationships. As he says on page 109, "Power is not something possessed or wielded by powerful agents, because it is co-constituted by those who support and resist it. It is not a system of domination that imposes its rules upon all those it governs, because any such rule is always at issue in ongoing struggles." In a static model, power is granted or taken by social contract or domination, and is maintained and preserved over time. In the dynamic view of power, though power relations have always existed, both its individual practices and the networks they take place in change throughout time. 
Foucault’s critics are justified in claiming that, under Foucault’s idea of power, there is no outside standpoint by which struggles and conflicts can be objectively and peaceably analyzed, compared, and justified. But if power is dynamic, then there is no need for such a standpoint. Rather than rely on an exterior standpoint by which to evaluate competing claims to power, Foucault, Rouse argues, situates us in a continuum of power relations competing and conflicting throughout history: 
Foucault was perfectly prepared to offer reasons for his choices of struggles and sides. He was equally prepared to offer reasons and evidence for the statements he made. What Foucault was not prepared to do was to see these choices, statements, and reasons as more than a situated response to a particular political and epistemic configuration.
Rouse, addressing any unsettled questions of how this helps us determine which position to take, follows with a helpful quote from Foucault: 
My point is not that everything is bad, but that everything is dangerous, which is not exactly the same as bad. If everything is dangerous, then we always have something to do. So my position leads not to apathy but to a hyper- and pessimistic activism. I think that the ethico-political choice we have to make every day is to determine which is the main danger.
This quote demonstrates that, though how exactly we "determine which is the main danger" is left somewhat ambiguous, Foucault clearly believed that some positions were better than others. Rouse confirms: "Political criticism is not arbitrary if it can be historically situated as a response to specific institutions and practices." 
That Rouse’s theory that Foucault viewed power as dynamic seems to so well explain Foucault’s politics in both his writing and personal life is not the only thing that supports it; the idea that Foucault viewed power as dynamic is based in his writing. Rouse argues that "power is not possessed by a dominant agent… but is instead distributed throughout complex social networks," and that power consists of social alignments and realignments. This is consistent with Foucault, who claims in Discipline and Punish that "power is exercised rather than possessed." In short, power is a verb, not a noun, and is therefore dynamic. Furthermore, social networks are in constant flux—power is not static for the simple reason that the networks in which it is based are not static. Rouse further bolsters his thesis by tying in two quotes from Foucault, one from Power/Knowledge that references power as "something that circulates" and one from The History of Sexuality, Vol. 1 that says power is "produced from one moment to the next." 
Rouse’s elegant theory is more than just a coherent defense of Foucault; in postulating that Foucault viewed power as dynamic, he is contributing new knowledge to Foucauldian criticism. Even so, his theory is extremely well grounded in Foucault, evidenced both by how adeptly it explains Foucault’s politics as well as its explicit textual support from Foucault. 
Gandal takes a different approach. In addressing criticism that Foucault is nihilist who is willing to provide "unrelenting critique… but offers nothing instead." Foucault tears down any potential grounds for resistance to power. "He has no ethical grounds… and no practical grounds," summarizes Gandal. Yet Foucault, critics argue, was an "uncompromising radical" who practiced "militant politics." Gandal says, "His theory and practice are at odds, say his critics: either his theory is simply wrong given his politics, or else his politics are nothing but sentimental." 
Thus, Foucault’s theoretical work and his real-life political activism become the focus of Gandal’s essay. Gandal immediately rejects any hopes that one might have of finding ultimate solutions in Foucault: "Those who come to Foucault’s work looking for political solutions will be perpetually disappointed. Foucault’s project—in both his politics and his histories—was not to lay out solutions, but rather to identify and characterize problems." The concept of problematization is fundamental to Foucault’s thought. As Foucault says in the interview "Polemics, Politics, and Problematizations": 
It is true that my attitude isn’t a result of the form of critique that claims to be a methodical examination in order to reject all possible solutions except for the one valid one. It is more on the order of "problematization"—which is to say, the development of a domain of acts, practices, and thoughts that seem to me to pose problem for politics. 
And the quote utilized by Rouse on page 112  is actually preceded by "I would like to do a genealogy of problems, of problematiques." 
Gandal, therefore, is right in citing problematization as key to understanding Foucault’s political action ). Since most of his counterargument to Foucault’s critics is based on Foucault’s endorsement of problematization, it is good that Gandal has solid roots in Foucault. Whether or not a system of political action based on posing problems is nihilistic is still up for debate, but Gandal is undeniably grounded in Foucault.
Gandal does elaborate on Foucault’s system of ethics, though. As the above quote from "Polemics, Politics, and Problematizations" reminds us, Foucault isn’t looking to establish one valid solution. Rather, "he believed that a progressive politics needed, not a vision of what should be, but a sense of what was intolerable and an historical analysis that could help determine possible strategies in political struggles." This makes Gandal’s essay an excellent complement to Rouse’s. Gandal’s argument also locates us within a continuum of history, and Gandal utilizes this to give us grounds for resistance: through problematization, we analyze the previously unquestioned and thus move from intolerable circumstances to better ones. 
Gandal’s attempt to connect practice and theory only makes sense in the context of Foucault’s concept of the genealogy. There was no origin or starting place to human power relations; similarly, there is no one foreseeable endpoint wherein the political system is finally fully legitimate and all values are correct. Only through the utilization of historical analysis can we locate ourselves on the continuum and move ourselves from bad to better. In this way, Gandal again reveals a thorough understanding of Foucault; his explanation of how political action can be derived from the theoretical work of Foucault is solidly based on the genealogy, Foucault’s methodology of choice.
As we will see, this leads to a conflict with Lentricchia, who tries to situate Foucault within a Marxist discourse. In fact, he does so quite effectively; he starts with an epigram wherein Foucault places himself in "a horizon of thought which has been defined and described by Marx. One might even wonder what difference there could ultimately be between being a historian and being a Marxist." In addition to explicit textual support from Foucault, Lentricchia argues that Foucault’s theory of discipline makes the most sense in a Marxist model of economics: discipline is a way of repurposing bodies to serve the "capitalist machine." 
Of course, as Lentricchia acknowledges, there are several important arenas in which Foucault departs from Marx, two of which concern power. First, Foucault’s vision of power is of a relationship or action, not as an object to "conspiratorially ‘owned’ by the ruling class." In a revisitation of Rouse, power is dynamic, not static. In several passages, Lentricchia admits, Marx equates the seizing of the means of production with the seizing of power. Lentricchia’s central thesis of Foucault belonging to a Marxist school of thought cannot account for this; since power is mediated through shifting social alignments , and since power’s ubiquity entails the ubiquity of resistance, then it does not fit the Marxist dichotomy of owner and owned. There is no monopoly on power.
Second, to Foucault, power is positive and productive, not negative and repressive. Though this does at first seem to contradict Marx, Lentricchia deftly repurposes the idea of power as a productive force to serve a Marxist model; power is used to make docile bodies, to break humans like one would break horses  so they are conditioned for labor. In this way, discipline controls bodies in both a negative and a positive expression of power; it is used "to keep them from politically dangerous expression and to make them economically useful ." I think Lentricchia is actually correct here.
Lentricchia’s main argument is that Foucault, by rejecting the possibility of a space outside out of power , denies us the freedom of action we need to give ground to resistance: "Because he leaves no shaded zone, no free space for real alternatives to take form, Foucault’s vision of power, despite its provisions for reversals of direction, courts a monolithic determinism." Lentricchia fully acknowledges the pervasiveness of power, and even acknowledges one possible reading of Foucault that seems to anticipate accusations of determinism: "Foucault’s revision of the repression thesis that we generally attach to Marx and Freud seems ultimately useful, then, because power, as the all-pervasive force that anyone can tap, may be the basis for something like perpetual microrevolution." But ultimately, he argues that because Foucault equates control of the body with manipulation of the mind, Foucault practices "supermaterialism" , and this is what Foucault’s determinism is rooted in. If there isn’t any potential for a space where minds can be free, then there is no possibility of resistance. This avoids the criticism of Rouse and Gandal, because Rouse and Gandal do not account for the possibility of determinism. The standard rebuttal to accusations that the ubiquity of power prevents liberation is that the power should be met with resistance, not liberation. But this argument does not apply here—Lentricchia insists upon liberation, because liberation precedes resistance. 
What Lentricchia fails to recognize is that discipline does not wield absolute control over the mind. The prisoners that were interviewed by the GIP, for example, still told stories about the horrible conditions of their disciplinary situation, and people reacted to them. The accusation that Foucault is deterministic crumbles because power is not absolute, so minds are not totally controlled.
In short, Rouse and Gandal prove a thorough understanding of Foucault and offer cogent defenses to a common criticism of Foucault. Lentricchia, in a highly original argument, makes interesting interpretations of Foucault using solid textual support. However, his accuracy in drawing conclusions from these arguments is marred, like many other critiques of Foucault, by a limited understanding of Foucault’s definition of power. Ultimately, all three authors demonstrate in different ways that understanding Foucault’s precise and specific definition of power is a prerequisite to meaningful criticism of his work.