In "Making Your Own Days," Kenneth Koch argues for the existence of language of poetry separate from the language used everyday. It’s a large claim, but there’s no shortage of evidence. "Ode to a Nightingale" by John Keats, for example, illustrates several differences between everyday language and poetry. Besides being a good example of poetry, it illuminates the nature of poetry by offering insight on the creative drive itself. An examination of the poem’s language, poetic inclinations, and description of creativity show much about how poetry functions as a separate language than the speech we use everyday.
If we wish to learn more about poetry through "Ode to a Nightingale," the place to begin is in what arguably makes it poetry in the first place—its music. The poem comprises eight stanzas, each with ten lines. The rhyme scheme is used in Keats’ other Odes. It begins with a quatrain in the ABAB pattern, and, like a Petrarchan sonnet, ends with a sestet in the CDECDE pattern. Keats’ nimble rhyming works well in this form, infusing the poem with music. The music, however, does not come from predictability—beginning with a straightforward quatrain sets a pattern for the reader that Keats does not follow. By the third line of the sestet, the reader is aware that the rhyme scheme established at the beginning of the stanza does not run throughout. Even once the reader becomes aware of the ABAB CDECDE pattern, this shift in rhyme still comes as a surprise. Nevertheless, the rhymes continue, just in a more unpredictable fashion; and the poem is better for it: the music is kept fresh. Indeed, this is somewhat like the song of the nightingale itself: familiar, yet hard to predict until one grows accustomed to the song. And because the rhymes are less predictable, the form feels less contrived. Like folk music that relies on heavy and complex rhythms, the reader is drawn to the subtle but persistent pace of the poem.
The rhythm too is heavy and complex. Best classified as iambic pentameter, the poem contains so many variations and substitutions on this meter that labeling it as such borders on the deceptive. And it is good that Keats does not follow the meter strictly: though parts of "Ode to a Nightingale" certainly show that Keats is quite adept at writing in iambic pentameter, had he followed that pattern for all eighty lines, the poem would likely grow dull. Even Shakespeare, master of iambic pentameter, was unafraid to make variations on that meter for poetry’s sake (especially in his later plays, when presumably he was more experienced and more confident in his stylistic choices). But even if Keats would have made a great poem by strictly following iambic pentameter, there can be little doubt that the poem’s current form would be superior. Keats eschews constancy for variety, and manages to create a flow that sounds completely natural, despite straying from the established rhythm. Keats masterfully employs spondees to accentuate certain lines and phrases, such as his use of five contiguous spondees in line 25 to describe the pitiable state of the human condition:
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs,
The line begins iambically, but, jumping from the stressed syllable at the end of the third foot, begins two feet consisting entirely of stressed syllables. The rhythm in this particular line creates a surge of energy at the end: da DUM, da DUM, da DUM DUM DUM DUM DUM. In addition to being a strongly musical line, the use of spondees both draws attention and lends emotional power to the sadness of the scene: "Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs" is a much more striking line than something like, "Where palsy shakes the hair of the old men," despite the latter following the poem’s basic meter. 
The rhythm, like rhythm in speech, isn’t always predictable, and although Keats’ lines certainly have a very natural feel to them, such a rhythm wouldn’t occur in everyday speech. The cadences are varied and difficult to predict, but exhibit forethought, expertise, and control—not unlike the flight of a bird, in fact. Such rhythms, specific to poetry, strengthen Koch’s analogy of a separate "poetry language."
The last musical quality employed by Keats that I will focus on is his use of consonance. Keats’ music shines through in lines like "Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget" and phrases like "self-same song." Assonance is used too, as evident in lines like "That I might drink, and leave the world unseen." The assonance and consonance contribute immeasurably to the overall music of the poem. They are used for more than just their musical qualities, though. When a phrase like "beaded bubbles winking at the brim" is paired with an image as strong as "purple-stained mouth," the mouth almost salivates at the thought of a "draught of vintage… full of the warm South". The repetition of b loosens up the mouth in a way that heightens the sensory qualities of taste. Such an effect is subtle, and almost certainly not conscious on Keats’ part, but they nevertheless play a large role in making the poem memorable. 
The music of a poem is just one element in what separates the language of poetry from everyday speech, and another of these elements are the descriptive inclinations specific to poetry. One such inclination is exhibited even before the poem begins: the poem is addressed to a nightingale. This is an example of apostrophe, as Keats is addressing something that does not understand him and is not able to reply. This is itself a poetic move; in everyday speech, we simply do not address animals. But, as Koch argues, the language of poetry, being separate from our everyday language, and is not used for the same purposes. Keats’ use of apostrophe sheds light on the nature of creative writing: it is used for more than just conveying information; far from being relegated to mere function, it is used to beautifully express emotions and thoughts that elude conventional language. Keats knows that the nightingale cannot understand him, but directly addressing the nightingale creates a special linkage between it and Keats. 
This is not the only poetic inclination in the poem: the nightingale is given human characterization. Of course, this is partially established by Keats’ directly addressing it, but the bird is also given personality and character. For example, he is described as singing because he is "too happy in [his] happiness[.]" Strictly speaking, that is simply factually incorrect: the nightingale is singing to attract a mate, or signify his location, or establish his territory. But Keats sees something more than a biological function inherent in many birds; he sees a carefree creature that is so filled with happiness that it cannot help but sing. That is, in the language of poetry, a birdsong can be more than a mating call; it can be an actual piece of music created out of joy.
The other thing characterized as human is, oddly enough, Death. In the sixth stanza, the juxtaposition of an anthropomorphized nightingale and personified death lead to an unusual stanza indeed:
Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
  I have been half in love with easeful Death,
Call’d him soft names in many a mused rhyme,
  To take into the air my quiet breath;
Now more than ever seems it rich to die,
  To cease upon the midnight with no pain,
    While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad
          In such an ecstasy! 
  Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain—
    To thy high requiem become a sod.

In the language we use everyday, this sentiment might be summarized as "Suicide seems like a good option when my own emotions are contrasted to how that bird sounds." But this would, of course, be terrible poetry; in this case, suicide and the nightingale are impersonal, distant things that do not resonate with the reader. But when Keats compares his contemplation of suicide with being "half in love with easeful Death," the personification of death is both striking and beautiful, even if, for a reader in the 21st century, it is somewhat clichéd. And when it is contrasted with the nightingale "pouring forth [his] soul abroad/ In such ecstasy!" the two emotions stand out even more. In this sense, the two "lies," as Koch calls them, work together to bring out truths that might not be fully or memorably conveyed if they were expressed literally.
Personification and apostrophe are just two kinds of poetic inclination. There is another element to what makes poetry separate from regular speech, and this is what Pound calls phanopoeia, or the imagery component of poetry. Phrases like "purple-stained mouth" leave a powerful impression in the reader’s mind, as do phrases like "embalmed darkness." The imagery, though, is just one part of the strong sensory impressions of the poem. A sensory experience like "The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves" is hard to forget—something about the crawling sensation the reader feels at the mention of flies works in tandem with the auditory effects (not to mention onomatopoeia) conjured by a word like "murmurous" to make such a line leave a strong impression in the readers mind. The poem does not just convey information; it conjures the taste of cool wine, or the sound of flies on a dark summer night. These impressions involve more than just imagery, and are part of what makes "Ode to a Nightingale" a good poem to analyze to learn more about the poetry language—some poems have strong imagery, but Keats brings in all the senses. This separates it from everyday language to an even further degree than if it were just strong in visual imagery. 
The poem is a good example of the poetry language for more than just its poetic qualities, though. In a sense, the poem itself is about the sort of truth that can only be expressed—or, at least, is best expressed—in the poetry language. Keats had a theory of writing that he called Negative Capability. In a letter to his brother, he described it thusly: "I mean Negative Capability, that is when man is capable of being in uncertainties, Mysteries, doubts without any irritable reaching after fact & reason…" From the beginning, the poem explores this theme of uncertainty, of experience rather than conclusions. "[A] drowsy numbness pains / My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk, / Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains / One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk[.]" This numbing of the senses is a good description of Negative Capability: Keats’ inhibitions and sense of reality are being diminished, as if he drank a poison or had just ingested opium. Keats continues on this theme by writing an entire stanza in praise of the draught that will let him "leave the world unseen, / And with [the nightingale] fade into the forest dim." The metaphor of poison or the numbing effects of wine or opium might be disconcerting to the reader, but the idea it conveys is undeniably clear. The sort of open-mindedness or freedom from reason that Keats is denoting is best described in terms of mind-altering drugs; clearly, this is not the sort of open-mindedness one speaks of in everyday language.
The poem is a meditation on death, so it is fitting that Keats chooses these three metaphors to begin the poem: the numbing quality of the alcohol and opium, and of course, the effects of the hemlock, are all, in a way, a kind of death. But even as Keats praises the draught that would help him experience this kind of death by leaving the world behind, he praises the nightingale’s immortality: "Though wast not born for death, immortal Bird!" While Keats may enjoy the substances that help him to release his need to make sense of the world—and therefore to release his feelings of pain and uncertainty—he does not particularly enjoy the implications of death in them, as indicated when, at the beginning of the fourth stanza, he articulates his desire to join the nightingale, a symbol of immortality ("immortal Bird"). 
This is not to say that Keats is afraid of death—as he says in the sixth stanza, "I have been half in love with easeful Death." He simply has a complex relationship with it. He enjoys death in the sense that he enjoys the death of reason that comes with the opium, hemlock, and wine. In many senses, this is what suicide is: a ceasing of the lifelong attempt to make sense of the world. This is the sort of death that Keats longs for, and elsewhere in the poem, this death of reason is correlated with life. Again, the fourth stanza elucidates this point if we take the nightingale as a symbol of immortality. He writes, "Away! away! for I will fly to thee, / Not charioted by Bacchus an his pards, / But on the viewless wings of Poesy, / Though the dull brain perplexes and retards[.]" The life that Keats seeks is to join the nightingale, which sings perfectly and clearly without thinking about it. But he is impeded by his "dull brain [which] perplexes and retards." It is this need to make sense of things that prevents him from joining the nightingale. It is here that Negative Capability is important: Keats longs to join the nightingale in being free of the constraints imposed by reason, with experience replacing reason as the highest standard (this sentiment is echoed in another of Keats’ odes, "Ode to a Grecian Urn," when he famously concludes, "Beauty is truth, truth beauty.")
"Ode to a Nightingale" is largely about Keats’ desire to escape the reason that pains him. In short, he desires Negative Capability, which is one of the elements present in poetry that is not typically present in everyday language. In this sense, the poem not only shows by example that which separates the poetry language from everyday language; it directly addresses the differences between the two. Confirming this is that Keats says he will fly to the bird "[n]ot charioted by Bacchus and his pards, / But on the viewless wings of Poesy[.]" It is the immortal nightingale he seeks to join, and it is not the intoxication of Bacchus that will get him there, but poetry.
Determining the author’s intent is a difficult, even impossible task. However, much can be learned about the purpose of Jane Smiley’s revisiting of King Lear by examining the change in the moral structures of the story. Lear, a good man who suffers from an error in judgment but is ultimately redeemed, becomes Larry, an incestuous brute who is bent on controlling his daughters. Regan, a jealous and greedy manipulator, becomes Rose, an embittered housewife who needs her anger as a crutch. Cordelia, a virginal maiden oppressed for her honesty, becomes Caroline, an ungrateful lawyer who is only able to have a functional relationship with her father because of the sacrifices her sisters made to protect her from him. The complexity of these characters’ personalities is explicated by Ginny, Smiley’s incarnation of Goneril and the narrator of A Thousand Acres. Each character, far from being seen as either good or evil, is seen largely as a product of his or her past. The individual histories of Ginny and Rose in particular make it difficult to classify them morally.
The central plot of King Lear is altered in the novel; Larry still splits his property between two of his daughters and alienates the third, but the story is less about Larry’s reconciliation with Caroline than it is about Rose and Ginny’s struggle to deal with their father. Rather than Goneril and Regan, who have no characterization or motivation other than jealousy and greed, the "bad" actions of Rose and Ginny are based in deeper psychological motivations. Rose, for example, does not want the land out of greed, but out of hatred for her father: "Sometimes I hate him. Sometimes waves of hatred just roll through me, and I want him to die, and go to hell and stay there forever, just roasting!." This anger is hardly more appealing than Regan’s greed, but the origin of this anger makes her hatred understandable: Larry was sexually and physically abusive to both Rose and Ginny during their teenage years. In light of this fact, it is hard to continue to view anger as an essential part of Rose, but rather as something that grew in her over time.
Knowing Rose’s story means knowing that she needs her anger as a crutch. After she explains how she was sexually abused to Ginny, who is still repressing her memories of the abuse, she says, "Don’t make me feel sorry for myself. That’s the hardest. The more pissed off I am, the better I feel." While dying of breast cancer in the hospital, she again says to Ginny, "We’re going to be angry until we die. It’s the only hope." Her anger gives her the strength to manage a normal life after the horrible abuse she suffered, but all the community sees is a bitter, selfish, shrew. Rose is aware of this, but boldly condemns the community’s methods of moral categorization: "He did beat us and he did fuck us…. And the thing is, he’s respected… Either they don’t know the real him and we do, or else they do know the real him and the fact that he beat us and fucked us doesn’t matter. Either they themselves are evil, or they’re stupid." This may hit close to home with readers—the community that Rose is attacking parallels the role of the audience in a performance of King Lear. It knows nothing of the daughters’ histories or motivations, and makes judgments based on actions. Either the audience does not realize that the daughters are more complex than just good or evil, or it is evil itself. In the play, of course, Goneril and Regan do seem to be purely wicked, but Smiley reminds us that this good/evil dichotomy does not apply to real humans.
Ginny’s story also shows why moral categories like "good" and "bad" are insufficient; her rebellion against her father has much to do with her history. Her father wields control over her during her childhood and adolescence through years of intense sexual and physical abuse, and even in adulthood, Ginny says, she struggles against the "weight of his ‘I’." She says, "When my father asserted his point of view, mine vanished." Compromising justice for peace, she is the first to apologize in any arguments. When Larry loses sway over his daughters, however, Ginny feels pleasure in gaining control over him, reversing the situation that she endured her entire life. After she threatens to take away his car keys if he continues to drive drunk, she says, "It was exhilarating, talking to my father as if he were my child." Goneril and Regan enjoy having power over their father for its own sake, but in the case of Ginny, it comes from finally being able to speak her mind: "This laying down the law was a marvelous way of talking." Her enjoyment of finally being the one in charge did not come from selfishness or love of power; it came as a direct result of being denied self-sufficiency her entire life, and finally being able to reverse the situation. Understanding how Ginny’s past contributes to this authority and independence makes it morally ambiguous. Similarly, her gradual separation from her husband Ty, who she feels encouraged her fear of self-assertion , is based in her need for autonomy. 
The community disapproved of Ginny exerting authority over her own father and abandoning her husband, but it was an inevitable consequence of how she grew up. As circumstances grew worse, she could continue to be diffident and apologetic, or she could rebel. Things like her affair with Jess Clark or Rose’s constant prodding to revolt polarized her, serving as a catalyst to push her to choose rebellion. The community sees this process of individuation as something negative, but Ginny herself prefers who she has become to who she was; what Ty calls "pretty, funny, and [looking] at the good side of things," Ginny calls being a "ninny." She is not fundamentally good or bad, and this does not change; the only essential part of her is "Ginny," and any change she experiences is to this end. In understanding Ginny’s history, the reader sees her transformation not as a degradation in principles, but as a movement towards personal authenticity.
Having seen the events of the novel unfold from Rose and Ginny’s point of view, the reader easily identifies the oversimplification in the good/evil mindset that their sister Caroline embodies. Separation from her sisters for so long has prevented Caroline from understanding the complex motivations behind their actions.  "I think things generally are what they seem to be!"  she says towards the end of the novel. "I think that people are basically good!…I realize that some people are just evil." In these statements, Caroline perfectly summarizes that which the novel has been discrediting the entire time, the idea that people are easily classified into "good" or "bad." Such categories are present in King Lear—the audience is obliged to simply accept that King Lear’s Goneril and Regan are evil and without redeeming qualities, while Cordelia is as pure as snow. After seeing the entire story from Rose and Ginny’s position, however, this worldview cannot appear as anything but ignorant and naïve. 
A common criticism of Foucault is that his conception of power, even if theoretically coherent, leads us to a practical standstill. If power is everywhere, after all, then true liberation is impossible. Any attempt at liberation will only lead to a reversal of roles: the oppressed form the new regime, and those who previously possessed power simply become its victim. If this is the case, why should anyone partake in activism at all? And if power and knowledge are so interrelated, on what epistemological basis can we discriminate between opposing regimes? 
As Rouse and Gandal reveal, all of these criticisms are flawed in their understanding of Foucault. Each is based on one or more incorrect presuppositions. Rouse and Gandal take two different approaches to undermine these arguments by addressing their mistaken assumptions. 
After a brief review of Foucault’s theories on the intertwined nature of power and knowledge, Rouse elaborates an explanation of Foucault’s understanding of sovereignty, and explains why his rejection of this sovereignty concerns Foucault’s critics. According to Rouse, Foucault delineates sovereignty in three ways. First, sovereignty is "a standpoint above or outside particular conflicts that resolves their competing claims into a unified and coherent system." Second, the prevailing question of sovereignty is the basis of its legitimacy. Last, sovereignty exercises a power that is always negative; it "prohibits, confiscates, or destroys," but does not create. But for Foucault, power is not something to be owned and brandished by one person or regime; it is dispersed through society as a whole. And a ruler or regime gaining the upper hand in power relations should not be mistaken as the legitimacy of a sovereignty being acknowledged by public consensus—as Rouse points out, in describing power relations, Foucault rejects any Hobbesian conceptualization of the social contract in favor of the metaphor of war. 
Critics of Foucault take issue with this. By rejecting any source of absolute political authority, they argue, we have no ground for resisting regimes; if no forms of power are authoritative or sovereign, on what basis do we establish new regimes? Rouse takes it one step further: "It is one thing to articulate and take up a stance on the political struggles in the midst of which one finds oneself situated historically. It is another thing altogether to seek an epistemic standpoint outside those ongoing conflicts from which that stance can be validated." That is, if power and knowledge and interdependent, and there is no absolute power, then how do we establish a standpoint of what Rouse terms "epistemic sovereignty"  by which to compare political regimes? Rejecting the possibility of sovereignty seems to lead to both a political and epistemological void.
Rouse presents an original solution via a simple explanation: Foucault conceives of power as dynamic. By this, Rouse means that power is not localized or static over time; it is continually expressed in ever-changing relationships. As he says on page 109, "Power is not something possessed or wielded by powerful agents, because it is co-constituted by those who support and resist it. It is not a system of domination that imposes its rules upon all those it governs, because any such rule is always at issue in ongoing struggles." In a static model, power is granted or taken by social contract or domination, and is maintained and preserved over time. In the dynamic view of power, though power relations have always existed, both its individual practices and the networks they take place in change throughout time. 
Foucault’s critics are justified in claiming that, under Foucault’s idea of power, there is no outside standpoint by which struggles and conflicts can be objectively and peaceably analyzed, compared, and justified. But if power is dynamic, then there is no need for such a standpoint. Rather than rely on an exterior standpoint by which to evaluate competing claims to power, Foucault, Rouse argues, situates us in a continuum of power relations competing and conflicting throughout history: 
Foucault was perfectly prepared to offer reasons for his choices of struggles and sides. He was equally prepared to offer reasons and evidence for the statements he made. What Foucault was not prepared to do was to see these choices, statements, and reasons as more than a situated response to a particular political and epistemic configuration.
Rouse, addressing any unsettled questions of how this helps us determine which position to take, follows with a helpful quote from Foucault: 
My point is not that everything is bad, but that everything is dangerous, which is not exactly the same as bad. If everything is dangerous, then we always have something to do. So my position leads not to apathy but to a hyper- and pessimistic activism. I think that the ethico-political choice we have to make every day is to determine which is the main danger.
This quote demonstrates that, though how exactly we "determine which is the main danger" is left somewhat ambiguous, Foucault clearly believed that some positions were better than others. Rouse confirms: "Political criticism is not arbitrary if it can be historically situated as a response to specific institutions and practices." 
That Rouse’s theory that Foucault viewed power as dynamic seems to so well explain Foucault’s politics in both his writing and personal life is not the only thing that supports it; the idea that Foucault viewed power as dynamic is based in his writing. Rouse argues that "power is not possessed by a dominant agent… but is instead distributed throughout complex social networks," and that power consists of social alignments and realignments. This is consistent with Foucault, who claims in Discipline and Punish that "power is exercised rather than possessed." In short, power is a verb, not a noun, and is therefore dynamic. Furthermore, social networks are in constant flux—power is not static for the simple reason that the networks in which it is based are not static. Rouse further bolsters his thesis by tying in two quotes from Foucault, one from Power/Knowledge that references power as "something that circulates" and one from The History of Sexuality, Vol. 1 that says power is "produced from one moment to the next." 
Rouse’s elegant theory is more than just a coherent defense of Foucault; in postulating that Foucault viewed power as dynamic, he is contributing new knowledge to Foucauldian criticism. Even so, his theory is extremely well grounded in Foucault, evidenced both by how adeptly it explains Foucault’s politics as well as its explicit textual support from Foucault. 
Gandal takes a different approach. In addressing criticism that Foucault is nihilist who is willing to provide "unrelenting critique… but offers nothing instead." Foucault tears down any potential grounds for resistance to power. "He has no ethical grounds… and no practical grounds," summarizes Gandal. Yet Foucault, critics argue, was an "uncompromising radical" who practiced "militant politics." Gandal says, "His theory and practice are at odds, say his critics: either his theory is simply wrong given his politics, or else his politics are nothing but sentimental." 
Thus, Foucault’s theoretical work and his real-life political activism become the focus of Gandal’s essay. Gandal immediately rejects any hopes that one might have of finding ultimate solutions in Foucault: "Those who come to Foucault’s work looking for political solutions will be perpetually disappointed. Foucault’s project—in both his politics and his histories—was not to lay out solutions, but rather to identify and characterize problems." The concept of problematization is fundamental to Foucault’s thought. As Foucault says in the interview "Polemics, Politics, and Problematizations": 
It is true that my attitude isn’t a result of the form of critique that claims to be a methodical examination in order to reject all possible solutions except for the one valid one. It is more on the order of "problematization"—which is to say, the development of a domain of acts, practices, and thoughts that seem to me to pose problem for politics. 
And the quote utilized by Rouse on page 112  is actually preceded by "I would like to do a genealogy of problems, of problematiques." 
Gandal, therefore, is right in citing problematization as key to understanding Foucault’s political action ). Since most of his counterargument to Foucault’s critics is based on Foucault’s endorsement of problematization, it is good that Gandal has solid roots in Foucault. Whether or not a system of political action based on posing problems is nihilistic is still up for debate, but Gandal is undeniably grounded in Foucault.
Gandal does elaborate on Foucault’s system of ethics, though. As the above quote from "Polemics, Politics, and Problematizations" reminds us, Foucault isn’t looking to establish one valid solution. Rather, "he believed that a progressive politics needed, not a vision of what should be, but a sense of what was intolerable and an historical analysis that could help determine possible strategies in political struggles." This makes Gandal’s essay an excellent complement to Rouse’s. Gandal’s argument also locates us within a continuum of history, and Gandal utilizes this to give us grounds for resistance: through problematization, we analyze the previously unquestioned and thus move from intolerable circumstances to better ones. 
Gandal’s attempt to connect practice and theory only makes sense in the context of Foucault’s concept of the genealogy. There was no origin or starting place to human power relations; similarly, there is no one foreseeable endpoint wherein the political system is finally fully legitimate and all values are correct. Only through the utilization of historical analysis can we locate ourselves on the continuum and move ourselves from bad to better. In this way, Gandal again reveals a thorough understanding of Foucault; his explanation of how political action can be derived from the theoretical work of Foucault is solidly based on the genealogy, Foucault’s methodology of choice.
As we will see, this leads to a conflict with Lentricchia, who tries to situate Foucault within a Marxist discourse. In fact, he does so quite effectively; he starts with an epigram wherein Foucault places himself in "a horizon of thought which has been defined and described by Marx. One might even wonder what difference there could ultimately be between being a historian and being a Marxist." In addition to explicit textual support from Foucault, Lentricchia argues that Foucault’s theory of discipline makes the most sense in a Marxist model of economics: discipline is a way of repurposing bodies to serve the "capitalist machine." 
Of course, as Lentricchia acknowledges, there are several important arenas in which Foucault departs from Marx, two of which concern power. First, Foucault’s vision of power is of a relationship or action, not as an object to "conspiratorially ‘owned’ by the ruling class." In a revisitation of Rouse, power is dynamic, not static. In several passages, Lentricchia admits, Marx equates the seizing of the means of production with the seizing of power. Lentricchia’s central thesis of Foucault belonging to a Marxist school of thought cannot account for this; since power is mediated through shifting social alignments , and since power’s ubiquity entails the ubiquity of resistance, then it does not fit the Marxist dichotomy of owner and owned. There is no monopoly on power.
Second, to Foucault, power is positive and productive, not negative and repressive. Though this does at first seem to contradict Marx, Lentricchia deftly repurposes the idea of power as a productive force to serve a Marxist model; power is used to make docile bodies, to break humans like one would break horses  so they are conditioned for labor. In this way, discipline controls bodies in both a negative and a positive expression of power; it is used "to keep them from politically dangerous expression and to make them economically useful ." I think Lentricchia is actually correct here.
Lentricchia’s main argument is that Foucault, by rejecting the possibility of a space outside out of power , denies us the freedom of action we need to give ground to resistance: "Because he leaves no shaded zone, no free space for real alternatives to take form, Foucault’s vision of power, despite its provisions for reversals of direction, courts a monolithic determinism." Lentricchia fully acknowledges the pervasiveness of power, and even acknowledges one possible reading of Foucault that seems to anticipate accusations of determinism: "Foucault’s revision of the repression thesis that we generally attach to Marx and Freud seems ultimately useful, then, because power, as the all-pervasive force that anyone can tap, may be the basis for something like perpetual microrevolution." But ultimately, he argues that because Foucault equates control of the body with manipulation of the mind, Foucault practices "supermaterialism" , and this is what Foucault’s determinism is rooted in. If there isn’t any potential for a space where minds can be free, then there is no possibility of resistance. This avoids the criticism of Rouse and Gandal, because Rouse and Gandal do not account for the possibility of determinism. The standard rebuttal to accusations that the ubiquity of power prevents liberation is that the power should be met with resistance, not liberation. But this argument does not apply here—Lentricchia insists upon liberation, because liberation precedes resistance. 
What Lentricchia fails to recognize is that discipline does not wield absolute control over the mind. The prisoners that were interviewed by the GIP, for example, still told stories about the horrible conditions of their disciplinary situation, and people reacted to them. The accusation that Foucault is deterministic crumbles because power is not absolute, so minds are not totally controlled.
In short, Rouse and Gandal prove a thorough understanding of Foucault and offer cogent defenses to a common criticism of Foucault. Lentricchia, in a highly original argument, makes interesting interpretations of Foucault using solid textual support. However, his accuracy in drawing conclusions from these arguments is marred, like many other critiques of Foucault, by a limited understanding of Foucault’s definition of power. Ultimately, all three authors demonstrate in different ways that understanding Foucault’s precise and specific definition of power is a prerequisite to meaningful criticism of his work.
Foer’s Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is not a story about trauma, but a story about learning how to cope after trauma. Central to understanding the theme of coping in the novel is understanding the role that language plays in coping. As Kristiaan Versluys puts it, "In no other novel on 9/11 is the relation between trauma and language as explicitly articulated as in Jonathan Safran Foer’s Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close." Language as a uniquely human attribute allows us to use communication to work through trauma. Furthermore, language’s role in expression makes it an effective tool in moving on from personal tragedy and loss. The novel shows how language can be liberating after trauma, allowing us to change each other and ourselves, even if we cannot change the past.  
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close’s main narrator, Oskar Schell, is a quirky and precocious 9-year-old boy who is trying to move on after his father, Thomas, dies in the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center. The novel is, in many ways, the story of how Oskar and his family use language to cope with the death of Thomas. One example of language’s ability to aid in coping can be seen in Oskar’s veneration of and fixation with the five phone messages that his father left while stuck in the tower. In an effort to protect his mother, he replaces the phone with an identical model and keeps the phone and its messages hidden away in his closet. The sound of his father’s voice is reassuring to Oskar and he often listens to his voice at times when he feels worried, like when he hears his therapist and his mother discussing hospitalizing him. Hearing his father’s voice makes Oskar feel closer to him and gives Oskar comfort. It is here that we see one of the most palpable functions of language in the novel—its ability to give comfort. The comfort given by the sound of Thomas’ voice transcends the comfort Oskar gets through reliving their memories together or merely thinking about how much Oskar misses him—indeed, current research supports the idea that the sound of a parent’s voice is inherently reassuring on a neurological level. Human abilities such as cognition or memory cannot match the instinctual consolation Oskar gets from hearing his father’s voice.
The ability of language to give comfort is further explored in the story. After the death of his father, Oskar finds a key in an envelope labeled "Black." Convinced that his father intended Oskar to find the key’s lock, he visits every Black in New York City, beginning from the top of the phonebook. In the course of his adventure, Oskar meets a woman named Abby Black. It is in her home that the use of elephants as a symbol of humanity reveals itself. This symbol, in conjunction with the five messages Oskar’s father leaves, proves important to understanding language’s role in comfort. Concerning elephants as a symbol for humans, it should be noted that the real-life similarities between elephants and humans are well-documented to begin with. There are also many instances in the novel itself to establish this symbolic relationship, such as when Oskar acknowledges that the elephant in the photograph in Abby’s apartment is crying, despite his claim that crying was a uniquely human tendency. The commonality that is the most relevant and prominent, however, is how elephant calls approach the level of language. Oskar mentions how they use deep calls to "set up meetings from very faraway locations, and they know where their friends and enemies are going to be." Oskar speaks to Abby about how an elephant researcher played recorded calls of an enemy that the elephants had only heard once before, and the elephant would become panicky. 
Language, like crying, seems to be no longer unique to humans. The humanization of elephants enables them, as a metaphor, to illustrate human qualities; in this case, the near-lingual capabilities of elephants illuminate a previously hidden aspect of Oskar’s father’s phone messages. "What’s really fascinating," Oskar says, "is that she’d play the call of a dead elephant to its family members." "And?" "They remembered." "What did they do?" "They approached the speaker." The recorded messages of the elephants’ dead family member recalls the messages left by Thomas Schell. The elephants, through some deep instinctual drive, approach the speaker, as though they are hearing their relative from beyond the grave. 
The elephants, when taken symbolically, show that the messages containing the voice of Thomas Schell have the potential to be a rallying point for the family he left behind. Furthermore, the last records of the living Thomas Schell have the potential to offer closure and resolution to the other Schells. Yet the benefits of the phone messages are denied the Schells, because, to some degree, Oskar secretly views the phone as an object of suffering: after the five messages have been left on the answering machine, Oskar takes great pains to hide the phone where his mother will never find it, with the reasoning that "protecting her is one of my most important raisons d’être." Oskar’s efforts to hide the messages leave the reader with something of a paradox concerning the messages. Oskar draws strength from his father’s voice, but he believes it will cause pain to his family. At first, this appears to weaken the argument that language and the voice help in coping because it opens the possibility that hearing Thomas’ voice will only hurt the other Schells. 
A solution to this problem can be found by examining the elephant metaphor again: "I wonder what they were feeling," Abby asks. "What do you mean?" "When they heard the calls of their dead, was it with love that they approached the jeep? Or fear? Or anger? … Did they charge? … Did they cry? " Oskar cannot give an answer. It is precisely this fear of the unknown that keeps Oskar from being able to share the phone messages with his mother and grandmother. He does not know how it will make them feel. He knows what he feels when he hears the messages: a mixture of nostalgia, sadness, pain, shame, and comfort. His emotions are complex, yet predictable. Perhaps because he feels he is now the "man of the house," Oskar feels obligated to hide the messages in order to protect his family. This action is noble, but misinformed. His belief that only pain will come of sharing the messages, and that all pain is bad, is youthful thinking. It is a sign that he is both maturing and learning to deal with his father’s death that he eventually says, "Feelings pain is still better than not feeling, isn’t it ?" Though Oskar feels that the messages might cause his mother and grandmother pain, he begins to understand that sometimes pain is a healthy part of coping, and can accompany comfort. Therefore, the array of feelings that comes with hearing Thomas’ voice is ultimately still indicative of language’s power to comfort.
Through the metaphor of the elephants and the example of the phone messages, the relationship between language and comfort is made clear. Oskar, however, harbors a secret about the messages—he heard his father leaving them and, out of fear, he never picked up the phone. Because of this, the messages, while a source of comfort, prevent Oskar from using them as a source of resolution. Instead, they draw out his pain by mixing it with shame.
The messages fail to provide closure in another way—Oskar, understandably, cannot get past why his father did not say that he loved him. He left five messages over the course of more than an hour, yet nowhere does Thomas Schell say he loved his son. The reader cannot help but sympathize with Oskar—why would someone who was otherwise a wonderful father not tell his son that he loved him? Because no resolution was made, Oskar is unable to move past this. This, the simple idea of telling someone "I love you" because of the possibility of never seeing him or her again, is an important theme in the story because it deals with language’s ability to provide resolution.
It is suggested that Oskar wanted to say "I love you" to his father the night before he died. After Thomas finishes a bedtime story and father and son are lying side by side, Oskar says, "Dad?" His father says "Yeah, buddy?" "Nothing." The most obvious answer is that he was going to say, "I love you," but did not.  This idea is reinforced in a parallel conversation seen much earlier in the novel. Oskar describes the ride to his father’s funeral and the admiration and devotion he feels toward his mother. Again: "Mom?" "Yes?" "Nothing." Oskar, in proximity to things that remind him that life is not permanent, feels the desire to tell his mother that he loves her, only to shy away. 
The theme of saying "I love you" as a form of resolution is largely based in the last of the grandmother’s letters to Oskar. Grandma, who was raised is Germany, describes the night she shared with her sister Anna before the Dresden Firebombing:
It was late, and we were tired. We assumed there would be other nights. Anna’s breathing started to slow, but I still wanted to talk. She rolled onto her side. I said, I want to tell you something. She said, You can tell me tomorrow. I had never told her how much I loved her. [...]. There was never a right time to say it. It was always unnecessary. 
The tragedy in this is that Anna died in the bombings. Grandma assumed that there would be other opportunities to tell Anna that she loved her. Regrettably, not telling Anna that she loved her was something she would have to live with for the rest of her life, and Grandma is left without closure on the situation. 
Versluys writes, "The characters want to reach out to one another; the novel consists of their attempts to establish contact." This perfectly describes Oskar and his grandmother; they want to express their love for their family, but are afraid to. The vulnerability that comes with honest self-expression makes this difficult. In one way, the more honest it is, the harder it is—as Oskar’s grandmother says, "How can you say I love you to someone you love?." 
The grandmother has learned from her traumatic experience, however. She understands that sometimes language is necessary to fully express something, and that we should use it before it is too late. Describing her thoughts on the night before Anna died, she says, "There was never a right time to say it. It was always unnecessary." Unfortunately, it takes the loss of her sister for her to realize that language is a gift, and that is should be used frequently—she concludes her final letter to Oskar: "Here is the point of everything I have been trying to tell you, Oskar. It’s always necessary. I love you, Grandma." 
It also takes a tragedy for Oskar’s mother to learn this lesson. Shortly after the planes hit, Oscar’s mother instructs Grandma, who lives across the street, to watch him until she can get home. Grandma recounts, "She said, I love you. She had been married to your father for twelve years. I had known her for fifteen years. It was the first time she told me she loved me. That was when I knew that she knew [that Thomas would die]." Grandma, who has experienced firsthand the importance of saying "I love you," knows exactly how to interpret it when Oskar’s mom says it to her for the first time: she knows Oskar’s mom knows that Thomas will not make it out alive. She has undergone the same lesson Grandma did in Dresden. Sadly, it takes the loss of Anna and Thomas for the two women to learn the shortness of life and the importance of sharing one’s feelings while it is still possible.
When it comes to coping with trauma, Thomas Schell’s messages and Grandma’s exhortation to say "I love you" show that language helps by facilitating comfort and resolution, respectively. One of the most obvious uses of language in coping, though, is its role in the expression of emotions. After the death of Thomas, Oskar’s mother pays for therapy sessions for Oskar. The sessions are disastrous—Oskar clearly does not see the point in therapy, nor does he want to be there. Furthermore, his therapist, Dr. Fein, seems to be mismanaging the sessions; he upsets Oskar by asking him, in order to investigate whether his moodiness is based in the onset of puberty, if Oskar has noticed the growth of hair on his scrotum. When Oskar says that he feels self-conscious, Dr. Fein apologizes and explains that he thought that part of what Oskar was experiencing might be due to the hormonal changes of puberty. Oskar responds, "It isn’t. It’s because my dad died the most horrible death that anyone can ever invent." 
While the therapy itself is decidedly not helping Oskar, Dr. Fein’s good intentions are not wholly misguided: Oskar clearly needs to talk about his feelings. At the end of their session, Dr. Fein and Oskar work out some goals for Oskar to reach, among them trying to be nicer to his mother and "to not ruin things by getting so emotional." When Dr. Fein asks Oskar how he is going to accomplish these goals, Oskar says, "I’m gonna bury my feelings deep inside me… no matter how much I feel, I’m not going to let it out. If I have to cry, I’m gonna cry on the inside. If I have to bleed, I’ll bruise." Oskar believes that self-expression will only make the lives of those who love him more difficult. He consciously makes an effort to internalize his pain, metaphorically "bruising" instead of bleeding. In fact, the bruising is more than metaphorical: Oskar mentions how his mother must have seen all of his bruises when she helped him into his "PJ’s" after he fell asleep on the floor one night—he says there were forty-one. This disturbing confession shows both the danger of not expressing emotions, and the innate desire to do so: Oskar, despite his commitment towards internalizing his feelings, says that he secretly wished that his mother would ask how he got them.
Oskar is missing the point of therapy. He is under the impression that self-expression is selfish or wrong. Unfortunately, Dr. Fein does little to correct Oskar’s misconceptions. When Oskar explains how he is going to bury his feelings, Dr. Fein says only, "But if you’re burying your feelings deep inside, you won’t really be you, will you?." When Oskar, obviously unconvinced, responds, "So?," Dr. Fein moves onto another topic entirely. In this new topic, Oskar further shows that his disdain for self-expression has not changed—when Dr. Fein asks Oskar if he thinks any good can come from his father’s death, Oskar reports, "I kicked over my chair, threw his papers across the floor, and hollered, ‘No! Of course, not you fucking asshole!’ That was what I wanted to do. Instead I just shrugged my shoulders." Oskar is infuriated that Dr. Fein thinks any good can come from his father’s death, but rather than expressing his feeling even to his own therapist, he remains silent.
This is not the only time Oskar remains silent rather than expressing his feelings. In his school’s watered-down rendition of Hamlet, Oskar frustration grows to a climax. The school bully, Jimmy Snyder, is playing Hamlet. Oskar, who missed the auditions, has a curious part: he plays Yorick’s skull as a sort of living prop. In the last performance, Oskar describes how he, as Yorick, reaches out and grabs Jimmy’s face, rather than the other way around. For this section, the novel is formatted like a play, and Oskar begins a lengthy monologue that combines  the original, unadulterated, Shakespeare with declarations of what Oskar really thinks of Jimmy Snyder. Jimmy, meanwhile, grows from confused to angry. The surreal scene ends with Oskar taking off the papier-mâché skull he wears and using it to brutally smash Jimmy Snyder’s head repeatedly. Finally, Oskar relates to the reader, "It would have been great," indicating that it all only happened in Oskar’s head.
This scene again demonstrates Oskar’s tendency to internalize his feelings. Rather than speak the truth about Jimmy Snyder’s bullying, Oskar keeps it to himself to comply with society’s expectations. Furthermore, the pent-up frustration he felt over the past twelve weeks led Oskar to imagine the violent outburst. Had he not been in the habit of censoring himself to prevent expression of emotions, Oskar might never have felt the urge to bash Jimmy’s head in with the skull. Oskar, describing Jimmy’s beating, says that his teeth go down his throat and there is blood everywhere —Oskar is no longer just a frustrated child; he is a potential threat to those around him. His internalization of emotions, far from helping those around him, only makes Oskar frustrated and even dangerous.
This tendency to internalize feelings is not restricted to children. Oskar’s grandfather, Thomas Schell Sr., was deeply in love with Anna when they were both youth in Dresden. When she died in the bombings, Thomas was unable to move on. He moved to America and began a relationship with Anna’s sister, Oskar’s grandmother, but soon found that his powers of language were diminishing. He explains in a letter to his then-unborn son how he first lost the ability to say "Anna," then preceded to lose his vocabulary one word at a time, until finally, he was mute. He becomes restricted to purely written communication, tattooing "YES" and "NO" on his hands and carrying around a notebook in which to write messages. 
Thomas Sr.’s silence represents his inability to speak about the trauma. For Thomas Sr., speaking about the trauma means accepting it and comprehending it, which is something that he is determined to avoid, if only unconsciously. His complete muteness also represents the emptiness that has conquered him—true to his surname, he has become the shell of the man he was. His life is defined by nothingness, and his loss of language symbolizes this. As Samuel Beckett said, "Every word is like an unnecessary stain on silence and nothingness" —and silence and nothingness are exactly what Thomas Sr. wants. His desire to replace language, love, and life with nothingness is an attempt to avoid dealing with the death of Anna. This is further established when he tries to create "Nothing" spaces in his and Grandma’s apartment. These spaces are areas where one can "cease to exist," becoming nothing temporarily.
Clearly, though, embracing silence and nothingness is not a healthy way for Thomas Sr. to deal with trauma. It prevents him from developing an actual relationship with Grandma, to the point where they even make love in only the Nothing spaces. Versluys writes, "[H]usband and wife cooperate in a conspiracy of silence" —hardly the mark of a healthy relationship. Furthermore, Thomas Sr. is crippled with low self-esteem  and is constantly apologizing, which can be seen as characteristic of survivor guilt. He attempts to deal with the trauma through silence and nothingness rather than expression of emotion. Thomas Sr. has yet to learn what his grandson has learned: feeling pain is still better than not feeling. 
In Thomas Sr.’s final letter, three pages consist of nothing but numbers corresponding to words spelled out on a telephone keypad. From this section to the end of this letter, the words begin to run closer and closer together until, finally, the last page written by Thomas Schell is nothing more than a black rectangle. Versluys writes, 
This dark page is the completion of Grandpa’s blank voice: muteness and semiotic overload share the condition of incomprehensibility, and for Grandpa, losing his words has the same effect as this overabundance of words. Both result in the erasure of communicability. The darkened page is a visible illustration of the writing of disaster as an impossibility. 
Thomas Schell’s last method of communication finally becomes incapable of expressing anything at all. Language has deserted him; the letters, which he does not send anyway, can no longer even record his thoughts. Unable to express himself and therefore unable to move on, he returns to Dresden, the home of his past.
The three narrators of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close each deal with personal tragedies with varying degrees of success, and the degree of success is largely based in how they use or misuse language. Understanding the importance of language in recovery from such tragedies leads to a greater understanding of the characters themselves, enabling a fuller reading of the novel. Most importantly, however, it allows the lessons learned by the Schells through trauma to be used by the reader without paying the same price. Language is a gift unique to humans, and can and should be used for expressing thoughts and emotion. In this sense, the novel itself is cathartic, expressing a post-9/11 America’s fear and grief. Versluys writes, "The whole task of Foer’s novel is to describe a normalcy that has been brutally interrupted." Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close shows that language is the primary tool in the reconstruction of that normalcy. 
Education, breeding, wealth, nationality, position—in the world of Shakespeare, these are all things that language can tell us about a person. Language’s ability to identify one’s class makes language an important factor in how people relate to each other, and Shakespeare understood this. Long-winded and vulgar Sir John Falstaff, for example, is clearly of an entirely different breed than the decisive and authoritative Henry Percy. Falstaff is farcical to the point of flippancy; Hotspur is too emotionally involved in his speech. Wavering—or perhaps just cleverly balanced—between the two ends of the spectrum is the eloquent Prince Hal. An analysis of how language is used differently among each of the characters in Shakespeare’s histories helps to frame them in terms of class and authority. 
Sir Falstaff, being a mere knight in a play driven by earls, princes and kings, is the lowliest of the main characters in 1 Henry IV. His preferred subject matter distinguishes him as lower in class than the nobles from the preceding scene. His speech is full of crass jokes about hanging and light-hearted self-deprecation. He jests about his own bad reputation, saying, "I would to God…I knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought." He is full of playful banter, and his teasing extends even to the prince himself. Falstaff does not censor himself in obedience to upper society’s standards of politeness. His tone is one of familiarity and frivolity; the gravity and aloofness present in the deeply political world of the nobles is not present in Falstaff.
It is easy to tell from Falstaff’s preferred subject matter that he is of relatively low class. Shakespeare, though, gives us a sign of Falstaff’s class even earlier—he does not speak in verse. The nobles in the first scene of the play speak in iambic pentameter, but Falstaff speaks in prose. The distinction is clear: poetry and eloquence are symbols of high birth, and prose is the language of the common people. 
This general dichotomy holds true for most of the play, but later attains special relevance as a tool to show Hal’s transformation. After Hal agrees to Poins’ prank and Poins leaves Hal alone, Hal drops prose and begins to soliloquize in verse. He says, "I know you all, and will awhile uphold / The unyoked humour of your idleness," but declares that he will not do this for long. He then likens his transformation to how the sun is all the more admired after hiding behind dark clouds, or how bright metal is more beautiful when juxtaposed with a dull background; in short, good things are best when given contrast. 
Hal’s soliloquy highlights the relationship between class perception and language through more than just the switch to verse. His claim that good things are better when given contrast is later reiterated by King Henry when warning his son not to cheapen himself by mingling with the common people. Unaware that his son is about to transform public opinion of himself, he tells Hal, "Had I so lavish of my presence been, / So common-hackneyed in the eyes of men / … / [Public] Opinion, that did help me to the crown, [would have remained loyal to Richard]." He contrasts himself with Richard, who he says blended with the lower class so much that they lost respect for him. "He was but as the cuckoo in June," he says; "Heard, not regarded." 
It is not that Henry does not mingle with the common people; in Richard II, we learn from Richard that Henry "[o]bserv’d his courtship to the common people, / [Diving] into their hearts with humble and familiar courtesy." He takes off his hat to an "oyster-wench" and greets horse groomers in the street. Similarly, his son claims to be able to "drink with any tinker in his own language," and he is on a first-name basis with the barmen at his favorite pub. Neither Henry nor Hal ignores the working class, because good relations with the common people are an important component of maintaining public favor and, consequently, power ). But unlike Richard, as Henry points out, they are careful not to spend too much time with the commoners.
This contrast with Richard highlights an important difference between the two: simply put, Henry knows when to shut up. Richard, the flamboyant poet-king, is incontinent with language. Like loquacious Falstaff, he is overflowing with speech. Henry and, increasingly, Hal, are more restrained in their language. These two categories immediately link language with class and therefore power. Falstaff is a lowly knight who never rises in rank, and Richard, similarly incontinent with language, ends up losing his crown. Henry and Hal, however, obtain and preserve power by knowing when to hold their tongue.
Falstaff is vulgar and overly familiar in his language, and Richard is overly poetic and impractical. But there is a third type of incontinence of language, demonstrated in Hotspur. On repeated occasions, Hotspur, true to his name, loses his temper with those he should respect. He answers the king’s request for Hotspur’s prisoners dismissively, and when the king leaves, is so enraged that he cannot be spoken too. "What, drunk with choler?" rebukes his father. He rants for several more minutes, preventing actual planning from being done, only stopping when his father says, "Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool / Art thou to break into this woman’s mood, / Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!."
In another example, Hotspur antagonizes Glendower throughout their meeting, earning him the reproach of both Mortimer and Worcester. Interesting, part of his jibing of Glendower focuses on mocking his Welsh accent., is another example of how language is tied up with class in that Welsh and Irish were viewed as second-class languages because they were spoken by second-class citizens). When Glendower defends his English by saying that he wrote lyrics for harp songs throughout his youth, Hotspur mocks his "mincing poetry." 
This scene shows his temper and inability to hold his tongue, but also important is Henry’s deriding of "mincing poetry:" he is opposed to language as a skill or craft. This aversion to artful language is demonstrated elsewhere in the play: he insults the king’s courier’s refined speech as using "holiday and lady terms," he repeatedly dismisses eloquent praise as glib flattery ), and he admits on several occasions that he does not have "the gift of tongue." Hal’s aversion to the art of language is in direct contrast with Hal, whose "princely tongue" extends so far as to lavish even Hotspur with praise.
This is the principle difference between Hal and Hotspur; Hal controls his language, but Hotspur, failing to do so, is controlled by it. Consequently, Hal finds himself increasing in reputation and power while Hotspur finds himself undone and finally killed at the hands of Hal. Hotspur’s inability to control his language is directly tied up with the lower class; after antagonizing Glendower, Worcester rebukes him, saying, "…[I]t doth present harsh rage, / Defect of manners, want of government, / Pride, haughtiness, opinion, and disdain, / The least of which haunting a nobleman / Loseth men’s hearts and leaves behind a stain / Upon the beauty of all parts besides, / Beguiling them of commendation." Hotspur "defect of manners" is characteristic of the lower class, and will not do if he is to become a true nobleman in the footsteps of his father. Similarly, Worcester accuses Hotspur of "want of government." Strictly speaking, this means that he has no self-control, but by coincidence, this phrase has another relevant meaning: through Hotspur’s incontinence and lack of self-control, Hotspur never realizes his full potential of power. Though of high birth, Hotspur does not enjoy the long life and power that his father has because he cannot control himself. He insists on attacking the king too soon, and costs himself not only the potential increase in power and influence that would come from defeating the king, but his own life. 
Hotspur cannot control his words or temper, and thereby sets actions in motion that not only cost him his chance at obtaining more power, but also his life. Similarly, idealistic Richard, full of language but short of prudence, eventually loses his crown. Henry and his son, on the other hand, rise in power due to their mastery of language. In this sense, Shakespeare shows the extent to which language is tied up with class and power: language does not just describe class and power; it changes who has them.
The language of Othello at times reads like a zoo, complete with horses, goats, monkeys, wolves, donkeys, falcons, and toads. On top of contributing greatly to the imagery of the play, the constant evocations of animals play a functional role in that they almost always act as a lens: whether being used to make feelings clear, make a situation seem worse than it is, or to describe a certain character, animal language is usually invoked with the intent of changing how one character views something. By stirring emotions and manipulating opinions, animal comparisons motivate characters by changing how they view themselves and one another.
Iago is the most prominent user of animal language in Othello. He boasts the first use of animal language in the play, deriding obsequious servants as asses who work only for food. The ass comparison becomes a favorite of Iago’s. He says Othello "will as tenderly be led by th’ nose as / As asses are." Rather than describe Othello as being trusting, simple, and naïve, Iago compares him to a donkey. This simple simile quickly and accurately shows the audience how Iago views Othello, and more efficiently than merely stating that Othello is gullible or stupid. 
Iago describes Othello as an ass twice; the second time he claims he will "make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me / For making him egregiously an ass." To make a fool of Othello is to make an ass of him; in being made a dumb and ignorant farm animal, Othello is being demoted from a human to an animal. 
Iago, the great manipulator, also frequently uses animal imagery to add a powerful emotional dimension to how characters perceive sex. For example, Othello, strangling Iago and demanding "ocular proof" of Desdemona’s infidelity, is again convinced that she is sleeping with Cassio when Iago describes their affair in animal terms. Iago frames the affair in terms of pure animalistic passion, describing Desdemona and Cassio as "prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, as salt as wolves in heat." This succeeds in infuriating Othello and assuaging his doubts of Iago’s honesty. The image of the two lovers being "as hot as monkeys" is strong enough to function as a sort of ocular proof; while a mere description is certainly not evidence, it is enough to cause Othello’s emotions to overcome his reason. 
Iago is successful: the animal language of Iago has deeply affected Othello. Iago’s description of the animal sexuality of Cassio and Desdemona remains on Othello’s mind even into the next act: he exclaims, "Goats and monkeys!" to himself after arguing with Desdemona. Iago knows that a portrayal of sex as raw and animalistic is precisely what will aggravate Othello to violence.
Othello is not the only victim of this tactic: Iago first uses it to enrage Brabantio about Othello and Desdemona, yelling outside Brabantio’s window, "Even now, now, very now, an old black ram / Is tupping your white ewe." Iago, knowing that Brabantio is a father bent on controlling his daughter’s sexuality, picks the image of two sheep having sex to infuriate him. He then says to Brabantio, "[y]ou’ll have you daughter cover’d with a Barbary horse, you’ll have your nephews neigh to you; you’ll have coursers for cousins, and gennets for germans." He then says that Desdemona and Othello are "making the beast with two backs." Iago’s language is geared to shock, and it works: Brabantio enters the street in a rage still in his nightgown, and dispatches his servants to search the city for Othello. 
On top of showing how sexual animal imagery is used to arouse anger and jealousy, Iago’s language displays the racism inherent in his view of Othello. His sheep comparison, for example, involves "a white ewe" and "an old black ram" rather than just two sheep; the emphasis is being placed on the fact that the lovers are of different races. Even using an animal metaphor in the first place is an instance of racism. In Iago’s metaphor of Othello as a Barbary horse, only Othello is an animal. It is racist not only because only Othello is the animal, but because, by keeping Desdemona as a human, interracial intercourse is likened to bestiality.
The nature of the racism is more than just equating Moors to animals; the animal imagery plays on the Elizabethan stereotype of the hypersexual black man—the "lascivious Moor," as Iago calls him. The animal language in the play frequently associates animals with unrestrained lust. We’ve seen this in Iago’s goading of Brabantio as well his "hot as monkeys" speech to Othello. He is not the only character to equate the animal kingdom with uninhibited sexuality. Cassio, for example, calls Bianca a polecat, thought to be a lascivious creature. Othello himself associates animals with sexuality, describing his heart as a "cestern for foul toads to knot and gender in"  and saying that Desdemona is as faithful "as summer flies are in the shambles, / That quicken even with blowing." The link between animals and unrepressed sexuality is made clear. Making Othello an animal, therefore, is to make him lascivious and lewd.
It is worth noting that Iago himself is also, to a degree, the subject of animal language. After he has been exposed at the end of the play, Lodovico calls him a "Spartan dog." This statement echoes both Othello’s threat that he "hadst been better have been born a dog" than to face Othello’s wrath, and lines delivered by Roderigo earlier in the play. He says, "I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but one that fills up the cry." It seems that Roderigo is the latter, but Iago is the former. Through various characters, Shakespeare depicts Iago as having the worst qualities of dogs.
While Iago is the most notable user of animal language in Othello, we hear animal language from Othello as well. Unlike Iago, who uses animal imagery to influence others, Othello typically uses animal imagery to more clearly express his own feelings. For example, he says that rather than share a portion of what he loves, he would "rather be a toad and live upon the vapor of a dungeon." Here, his preference for the lowly life of a toad is cited to show just how strongly Othello hates the idea of infidelity. He uses the toad imagery again, saying to Desdemona that her infidelity has made his heart become "a cestern for foul toads to knot and gender in." When livid about Cassio and swearing his revenge, Othello says that his bosom is "full of aspics’ tongues." 
While Othello’s use of animal language is often just as frightful and grotesque as Iago’s, the ends to which both characters use it show them to be quite different. Iago constantly compares others to animals, and he does this to manipulate other characters or to express his distaste of them. Othello, on the other hand, constantly invokes animal metaphors to express his own feelings more clearly. Both characters use animal language as a lens to change the way one character views another, but their motives and methods are completely different.
The few times that Othello does use animal imagery about others are usually kind and gentle. Even as he bemoans the fact that wives are so hard to control, he refers to them as "delicate creatures." And he says of Desdemona, "If I do prove her haggard, / Though that her jesses were my dear heart-strings, / I’ld whistle her off, and let her down the wind / To prey at fortune." Desdemona is no toad or dog; she is a wild falcon. That Othello chooses for his metaphor an animal of grace and beauty, even under the impression that Desdemona is sleeping with his lieutenant, shows his essential good nature.
Both Iago and Othello use animal language to change how a character is viewed; Iago uses animal imagery to great effect in changing how characters view one another, and Othello uses it with equal skill in expressing his own feelings to himself and others, or occasionally in praise of others. How a character chooses to utilize animal language helps to characterize them; one uses it to denigrate and manipulate, while the other uses it for self-expression and praise. In an example of Shakespeare’s masterful portrayal of his characters, Iago and Othello, given the same type of metaphor, use it to entirely different ends. This shows fundamental differences in their personality. In this way, when a character uses animal language to describe another character, he is not just describing that person; he is unwittingly describing himself. 
The need to make sense of life and death is a prominent theme of A Happy Death/ As Fun Home is largely a memoir about Alison Bechdel’s struggle to make sense of her father’s death, the two narratives can be rightly expected to have some thematic overlap. The references to Camus and existentialism, then, are not out of place, as existentialism approaches a topic philosophically that Bechdel approaches psychologically and through literature. Bechdel’s interpolation of existentialist texts add a philosophical dimension to Alison’s attempt to make sense of her father’s death, and her and her father’s experience with death is essentially the philosophical one predicted by absurdist existentialism.
Before Alison Bechdel’s experience with death can be labeled as "absurd" or "existential," however, existentialism in the absurdist vein must be defined. Existentialism, and Camus in particular, addresses the question of whether life has any inherent meaning, and the need of human beings to recognize the absurdity of life and the universe and reconcile oneself with it. Camus says that eventually, humans will directly encounter the irrationality and meaninglessness of human life, and either try to elude the absurd through God, suicide, and the like, or acknowledge the absurdity of life, reconcile oneself to it, and derive meaning through the struggle for happiness itself. This struggle for self-created rather than objective meaning requires not surrender, but revolt. 
This is precisely what Patrice Mersault, the protagonist of A Happy Death, does. Living in near poverty and spending his days working as a clerk for little money, Mersault kills a rich invalid named Zagreus for his money, and begins travelling in search of personal happiness—not selfish hedonism, but meaning. Mersault’s journey embodies how Camus posits humans handle the absurd, and Alison Bechdel’s own encounter with death can be explained in such terms once they are established.
First, we are faced with the urge to find meaning in our lives. Mersault’s first inkling of this need for meaning comes from Zagreus. He convinces Mersault that his life is being wasted as he works day-to-day as a clerk, and that money can afford him the time he needs to find happiness. "What I’m sure of," he says, "is that you can’t be happy without money." Zagreus convinces him that he will die an unsatisfied man if he does not have the means to pursue happiness. Ironically, it is this advice that inspires Mersault to kill him, and after he does, he travels to Prague and tries seeking meaning in his life. 
The second step in handling the absurdity of human life is when, after seeking meaning in life, we must finally concede that there is no meaning in it. In a second pivotal moment, Mersault clearly indentifies the absurdity of human life: after a few days of sadness and sickness in Prague, he sees a dead man with a gaping hole in his head lying ignored in the streets, and has a moment of epiphany. It is in this moment that he acknowledges the futility of trying to find objective meaning in an irrational universe. In short, faced with meaningless death, "Mersault’s rebellion exploded"  and Mersault forces himself to confront his own life and death: "Inside him widened a great lake of solitude and silence above which ran the sad song of his deliverance." A horrible event, it nonetheless succeeds in "delivering" Mersault from his previous mode of living by forcing him to concede that life is utterly devoid of objective meaning.
These two steps describe how humans handle the absurd, and this is where Fun Home intersects A Happy Death; Alison Bechdel, through her father’s death, experiences the sort of existential crisis that Camus describes in A Happy Death. Alison grows up in a funeral home, and encounters death from a very young age, as exemplified by the man with the hollowed chest lying on the prep table. This is not her first encounter with the absurd, however. One might think growing up around coffins and cadavers, might make death seem a little more commonplace, or at least force Alison to come to terms with human death early in life. But while Alison encounters death in everyday life, she does not specifically have to face it as something relevant to her life; she may be surrounded by death, but she does not have to struggle with its inevitability in the way that Mersault does when he chances upon the dead man. Her experience with death does little to prepare her for the inevitable and necessary confrontation with death that comes about as the result of the loss of her father:
You would also think that a childhood spent in such close proximity to the workaday incidentals of death would be good preparation. That when someone you know actually died, maybe you’d get to skip a phase or two of the grieving process—"denial" and "anger," for example—but in fact, all the years spent visiting gravediggers, joking with burial vault salesmen, and teasing my brothers with crushed vials of smelling salts only made my own father’ death more incomprehensible. 
Despite growing up in a funeral home, Alison is unable at first to fully comprehend her father’s death, as, in a sense, his father’s death is her first real experience with mortality. When he does die, though, she is forced to deal with death in the existential manner described by Camus—that is, she is forced to acknowledge the absurdity of human life. This is evidenced by her actions after the death. When she receives the news of her father’s death, rather than being consumed with grief on her bike ride from the library back to her apartment, she "marvel[s] at the dissonance between this apparently carefree activity and [her] newly tragic circumstances." She cries in her girlfriend’s arms for "about two minutes," and when she returns home, she and her younger brother John greet each other with "ghastly, uncontrollable grins." Later, when recounting her father’s death to a friend, she laughs to the point of tears; she writes, "The idea that my vital passionate father was decomposing in a grave was ridiculous." Alison does not respond with grief, because she sees her father’s death as something absurd—"absurd in the sense of ridiculous, unreasonable… though perhaps Camus’ definition of the absurd—that the universe is irrational and human life meaningless—applies here as well." 
Alison’s response to death may seem unhealthy, but by acknowledging its absurdity, she moves on with her life and avoids the same fate as her father. Although Fun Home gives little details of her life after her father’s death, by virtue of Fun Home’s existence, it seems that she is pursuing happiness as Mersault does in A Happy Death; the drive to create one’s own happiness in the wake of acknowledging the absurdity of life is akin to her drive to create art after her father’s death. 
Her father, on the other hand, does not respond to the absurdity of life in the way that Alison or Mersault does. He chooses suicide, a decidedly foolish decision according to Camus’ brand of existentialism. Bechdel writes that she wishes her father had underlined a particular passage in The Myth of Sisyphus: "The subject of this essay is precisely this relationship between the absurd and suicide, the exact degree to which suicide is a solution the absurd." She continues, "It’s not that I think he killed himself out of existentialist conviction. For one thing, if he’d read carefully, he would have gotten to Camus’ conclusion that suicide was illogical." The Myth of Sisyphus comes to the conclusion that man’s search for meaning is futile because human life absurd, but that suicide is an illogical response because it is merely a means of eluding the absurd. 
"Sometimes he seemed the perfect absurd hero, Sisyphus shouldering his boulder with detached joy," Bechdel says, describing how we went about his duties as a mortician. But she continues, "Other times, he was despairing." She writes that Camus, in The Myth of Sisyphus, opines that "we all live as if we don’t know we’re going to die." Alison responds, "But then, he wasn’t a mortician. I suspect that for my father, death was all too convincing." Bruce, then, is a somewhat atypical example of how one makes sense of death. He cannot be merely categorized as one who could not reconcile himself with the absurdity of death. Bechdel, though herself a good example of an existentialist response to the absurdity of death, rejects this simple explanation. "Who was [Camus] to cast logical aspersions at suicide? … Long nights employed in this scutwork of the flesh would make anyone reconsider the logic of not postponing the inevitable."
In the end, though, she labels her father’s suicide "une mort imbécile, any way you look at it." His reaction to death may or may not fit the existentialist’s description of someone who fails to respond to the absurdity of human life. But this does not matter, because he experienced a different kind of death: "I suppose that a lifetime spent hiding one’s erotic truth could have a cumulative renunciatory effect. Sexual shame is in itself a kind of death." This shame has an effect like death on Bruce, especially because it affects every aspect of his life: he comes very close to losing his job and having to move from Beech Creek because of his relationships with his students, and his active homosexuality leads to his wife asking for a divorce. And, of course, he has to deal with society’s judgment of homosexuality; Alison, in the memoir, is tempted to say, "He killed himself because he was a manic-depressive, closeted fag and he couldn’t face living in this small-minded small town one more second."
Perhaps as a result of generational differences—Bruce admits he is envious of the freedom that Alison has growing up in an age when homosexuality is first becoming acceptable — Bruce and Alison Bechdel respond to death in two different ways. Alison and Mersault experience death, acknowledge its absurdity, and forge on regardless, embodying all the qualities of the "absurd hero." But Bruce fails to respond to death in the way that Alison and Mersault do, and while the death he first experiences is sexual and social in nature, the death it results in is, unfortunately, literal. In this way, the inclusion of A Happy Death and other references to absurdism in Fun Home underscore the practical importance of existentialist philosophy: the need to adapt to the absurdity of death—be it literal or psychological—in what is essentially and irrational and unsympathetic universe. Alison and Bruce show the need to reconcile oneself with such a universe—and the consequences of failing to do so.
First and foremost, I would like to thank my advisor, Professor David Halperin, for his limitless support and guidance in helping me write this thesis. If it is at all successful in achieving its purpose, it is only due to his invaluable wisdom, extensive expertise, and incredible patience. It was my classes and conversations with David that got me interested in the ideas underlying this thesis, and it was because of his encouragement that I even applied to the Honors program to write a thesis to begin with. It is no exaggeration to say that this thesis would not be the same without David; indeed, it exists because of him.
I also owe gratitude to Professor Jennifer Wenzel and Professor Gillian White for the countless hours they put into helping me and my peers finish our theses. I know I am not alone in saying their advice, listening ears, and most of all, their unrelenting belief in us were absolutely indispensable to us in completing our theses. I was touched and inspired to see them make our goals theirs, and I believe that the examples of encouragement and involvement that they set transformed the Honors cohort from a random group of people into a source of continuing fellowship and mutual support.
And it is the cohort that I want to thank next. When I began the thesis-writing process, I did not know that I would be ending with such an incredible group of friends. Getting to know them was reassuring, exciting, and challenging: reassuring, because I learned that I was not the only one who was new to this; exciting, because I got to meet a set of brilliant minds who I know will all go on to do incredible things; and challenging only in the sense that their intelligence and hard work challenged me to make this thesis the best it could be. 
I am grateful to my friends and family, especially my grandmother for her unwavering support, my younger brother for always asking about what I am up to and making me laugh, and my roommates for supporting me from start to finish. Most important, I wish to thank my mother, for giving me the confidence to find what I enjoy and pursue it, and my father, who taught me to work hard for what means most to me. It was these values that wrote this thesis, and it is thanks to my parents that I will still carry them with me now that it is finished.
Last, I want to thank the dozens of unnamed people whose small acts of kindness collectively comprised the majority of my support: the friends who asked how my thesis was coming, the curious strangers who asked what I was writing on, and the multiple individuals who asked if they could read it when it was finished. These instances of friendliness may have been small to them, but they meant the world to me, and I have not forgotten a single one.
Dynamic psychiatry—that is, the model of psychiatry grounded in Freudian psychoanalysis—was the dominant mode in American psychiatry from World War II until around the late 1970s. Most psychiatric departments were headed by dynamic psychiatrists, and psychiatry residents, even those who did not intend to become psychoanalysts, received training in psychoanalytic concepts as part of their basic education. Furthermore, dynamic psychiatrists expanded psychiatric treatment to include all types of mental distress except schizophrenia and bipolar disorder—and sometimes even those. By the 1980s, though, dynamic psychiatry’s fortunes had changed. Dynamic psychiatry was abandoned in favor of the "diagnostic" model, which viewed mental distress as a group of discrete medical illnesses. Psychoanalysis was increasingly seen as unscientific, and dynamic psychiatrists no longer had the same presence in the faculty of medical schools and hospitals.
Why did dynamic psychiatry fall from its position as the most influential model in American psychiatry, and why did it fall so fast? In this thesis, I argue that psychiatry as a whole, a branch of medicine that was under intense scrutiny from both the lay public and the rest of the medical world, was under pressure to prove its legitimacy as a science and as medicine. And in order to establish its scientific authority, psychiatry needed to prove that it was capable of generating scientific knowledge. Dynamic psychiatry struggled to do this, and certainly did not do it as well as diagnostic psychiatry and other models. Thus, because psychoanalysis was not useful for solving the political problems of American psychiatry as an institution, it fell out of favor in psychiatry as a science. 
To argue this point, I examine the ways in which dynamic psychiatry either did not or could not produce scientific knowledge. In my first chapter, I examine the uncontrolled growth of competing theories and schools of thought in psychoanalysis to show how, even when seemingly producing knowledge prolifically, psychoanalysis was in fact a highly fractured field that was incapable of testing or sorting through newly produced ideas. I also examine how dynamic psychiatry, unlike other sciences, was stunted in its ability to innovate freely due to the inescapable influence of its founder, Freud. In my second chapter, I examine how changing notions of scientific objectivity during this time tarnished the standing of psychoanalytic knowledge, which lacked the labels of "scientific" and "empirical." In my third chapter, to argue my point that dynamic psychiatry fell out of favor because it was unable to produce scientific knowledge, I show how the model that replaced it, diagnostic psychiatry, facilitated the production of knowledge very well.
Since Foucault’s revolutionary work on the mutually reinforcing relationship of power and knowledge, there has been a great body of scholarship furthering our understanding of the intersection of the two. However, most of the scholarship on the concept of power/knowledge (including Foucault’s) has focused on the way that knowledge of a particular person helps one gain power over that person (as seen in the relationship between the doctor and the patient, the state and the prisoner, etc). In contrast, the case of dynamic psychiatry shows that, in the sciences at least, the production of knowledge itself—regardless of its relationship to its subject—functions as both a prerequisite and source of authority. Thus, the fall of dynamic psychiatry demonstrates both the pressure on science to produce knowledge and how social and political factors often underlie scientific change and progress.
Freud’s 1909 lectures at Clark University, which occurred during his first and only visit to the United States, sowed the seeds for psychoanalysis’ dominance in American psychiatry for the middle part of the twentieth century. The quick success of Freud’s ideas in America was due partly to strategy and partly to serendipity: strategy, in that Freud presented his ideas as simplistically and optimistically as possible in order to appeal to the well-known pragmatism of the Americans; serendipity, in that Freud’s theories blamed sexual repression as a prime cause of neuroses at a time when Americans were fiercely engaged with changing sexual mores. As sociologist Michael Strand notes, though, perhaps the most important factor in psychoanalysis’ success in America is that psychoanalysis offered the possibility of establishing an etiology for "everyday" mental distress, or at least mental distress less severe than the extreme mental illness of asylum patients; thus, American psychiatry found just the tool it needed to shift from its "lowly duty of managing the insane" in asylums to a much larger role in regulating mental health in the United States. This "shift from the asylum to the office," as historian Allen Horwitz puts it, is well-supported by the statistics: in 1917, the proportion of American psychiatrists in private practice was 8 percent; by 1941, it had risen to 38 percent; in 1970, it reached 66 percent. 
Psychoanalysis also rose to influence in training centers and academic positions: by the mid-1960s, psychoanalysts chaired 58 percent of all psychiatry departments in the United States, and in 1954, a study of fourteen psychiatric resident training centers discovered that most of the training centers were psychoanalytically oriented, and that individual residents were likely to be psychoanalytically oriented even when their training center was not.
However, despite psychoanalysis’ dominance in psychiatry in the middle of the twentieth century, during the 1970s and 1980s its popularity in psychiatry suddenly declined as rapidly as it had risen. At UCLA, for instance, the percentage of psychiatric residents in psychoanalytic training centers in 1966 was 50 percent; by 1975, it had already dropped to 27 percent, almost half that number. Today, there are virtually no psychiatry departments headed by psychoanalytic psychiatrists. What was it that led to the death of psychoanalytic psychiatry in the 1970s and 1980s?
Some authors, such as Robert Whitaker, argue that the introduction of a handful of new psychopharmacological medications raised hopes for a "magic bullet" for various psychiatric conditions, and the demonstrable initial success of these medications spurred a "biological revolution" in psychiatry that was comparable to the introduction of penicillin in the rest of medicine. This new biological perspective, it is argued, initiated the movement away from the neuroses of the dynamic model (that is, the model of psychiatric practice grounded in the tenets of psychoanalysis), which were held to be inseparable and continuous with normal mental life, and towards its successor, the diagnostic model, where mental illness was conceived as a series of discrete medical illnesses. The growing attention to biology in psychiatry, and the subsequent effects of this attention on society’s conception of human mental life and human subjectivity, is an important topic worthy of critical attention. However, it alone does not explain the historical shift from the dynamic model to the diagnostic model, because while diagnostic psychiatry conceived of mental distress as composed of a series of separate illnesses, the individual medications produced by the biological approach typically proved effective in treating many of these supposedly different illnesses at once. That is, while American psychiatry increasingly thought of mental distress in terms of discrete and distinguishable syndromes, pharmaceuticals did not. By extension, the growth in popularity of the biological approach to psychiatry cannot alone explain why the dynamic model was abandoned in favor of the diagnostic model.
In this thesis, I will argue instead that American psychiatry abandoned psychoanalysis during this time because psychoanalysis increasingly appeared to both laymen and scientists to be unable to generate scientific knowledge, and that psychiatry, a relatively new and increasingly controversial branch of medicine and science, needed to demonstrate publicly that it was capable of producing knowledge in order to maintain authority and legitimacy in the eyes of the other branches of medicine and with the public. By the time of its decline, psychoanalysis appeared stagnant, and the legitimacy of its methods had been called into question; psychiatry needed other tools by which to carve out a niche for itself in science and medicine. Therefore, I will examine psychoanalysis with reference to the changing practices of science and scientific research in the United States to identify the sociohistorical factors that led American psychiatrists to turn to other models of psychiatry during the 1970s and 1980s. In doing so, I hope to shed light on the cultural pressures on scientific disciplines to produce scientific knowledge, even as the societies within which they operate change what qualifies as knowledge over time.
In my first chapter, I will substantiate and expand upon my claim that psychoanalysis failed to grow as a science and discipline since its introduction to the United States by Freud in 1909. By this claim, I do not mean to say that psychoanalysis did not produce new theories and other innovations. In fact, new theories proliferated during this time. That was part of the problem, though: the new theories produced by psychoanalysis often resembled divergent and contradicting schools of thought, and these new theories had the effect of dividing rather than unifying psychoanalysts. Furthermore, psychoanalysis seemed to lack the epistemic tools to test and reject some portion of these new theories, and so the creation of these new, competing schools of thought went unchecked. The proliferation of new ideas in psychoanalysis did not lead to psychoanalysis’ development or to the unification of psychoanalysts, but rather to what historian of science Paul Stepansky terms the "fractionation" of psychoanalysis during this period. I will substantiate this claim with a brief analysis of publishing trends of psychoanalytic books and journals.
I am not writing a science or philosophy of science thesis, so I will not argue, and do not purport to know, whether the new theories produced by psychoanalysts during this time are true or false, or scientific or unscientific; rather, I am performing a historical analysis of what sociocultural factors stood in the way of the long-term development of psychoanalysis as a science in the United States. In addition to the seeming inability on the part of psychoanalysis to reject new theories as they were created, a related factor responsible for the discipline’s failure to entrench itself, I will argue, is that even as new theories sprang up uncontrolled, psychoanalytic thought, unlike other sciences, demonstrated an unusual inability to move past the ideas of its founder, Freud; furthermore, psychoanalysts who did so ran the risk of incurring stigma from other psychoanalysts. Whether psychoanalysts during this time would have thought of their reliance on Freud as a bad thing is, of course, debatable. My argument, though, is that, whether psychoanalysts considered it a drawback or not, their reliance on Freud hindered psychoanalysis’ ability to develop and adapt as a science, according to the criteria for scientific knowledge that were coming to be increasingly formalized and applied during the first half of the twentieth century.
In my second chapter, I will investigate changes in the philosophy and practice of science during the twentieth century (e.g. the importance increasingly placed on reproducibility and falsifiability, and the growing role of double-blind trials) to show how psychoanalysis as a means of producing knowledge began to fall out of favor. These historical changes were not good for the reputation of psychiatry, which was dominated by psychoanalytic thought, in the judgment of other branches of science and the public. Changing opinions on what was considered "legitimate" science or what constituted valid scientific knowledge during this time led to psychoanalysis’ decline in psychiatry. Specific topics addressed in this chapter include the use and reputation of case studies, which for a long time constituted the backbone of psychoanalytic research, but declined in medicine and science as a whole during the twentieth century. They were replaced by methods such as the double blind trial, which purported to eliminate subjectivity in research. I will show how the privileging of knowledge considered "objective," gathered by certain technical methods but not others, eventually led to psychoanalysis’ declining reputation and use.
In the third chapter, I will compare psychoanalytic psychiatry with its successor, diagnostic psychiatry, in order to highlight the sociohistorical factors that led psychiatrists to abandon psychoanalysis in the 1970s and 80s. By showing what made diagnostic psychiatry successful, I hope to demonstrate why dynamic psychiatry was not: the shift to the diagnosis in understanding mental illness, which reached its apex with the publication of the third edition of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-III), constitutes a major event in the history of American psychiatry, and by analyzing its rise and its eventual supplanting of psychoanalysis, it will be easier to understand why psychoanalysis fell out of favor. In particular, I will argue that the medical diagnoses of the DSM, in addition to increasing the reputation of psychiatry by emphasizing its "medicalness," filled a void in American psychiatry by creating a system by which to study mental distress: a nosology of mental illnesses composed of a tremendous number of discrete conditions which made it easy to organize and accumulate knowledge about mental distress. Conversely, the neuroses of psychoanalysis were not discrete, but rather continuous with the "healthy" mind, and psychoanalysts placed little emphasis on diagnoses, if they were used at all: instead of distinguishing between a finite set of identified conditions, psychoanalysis viewed mental health as a spectrum. The continuous nature of psychoanalytic neuroses with normal mental life, I will argue, made it difficult to organize and produce a body of medical knowledge about them, because they made categorization difficult and because medicine is based on a distinction between the normal and the pathological.
The transition to diagnostic psychiatry made the study and treatment of mental distress financially as well as epistemologically possible. The growing tendency of health insurance companies to cover part of the costs of psychotherapy necessitated the creation of some sort of categories for billing purposes, and the medical diagnoses of the DSM filled this role. Furthermore, these companies required some measurement and prediction of progress and outcomes in mentally ill patients, and the neat diagnoses of the DSM enabled bodies of research to be created for individual conditions. The creation of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) to fund and direct research on mental illnesses during this time also created an incentive for a movement towards a formal and organized nosology of mental illness. Furthermore, though diagnostic psychiatry replaced the dynamic model, in which neurosis was continuous with normal mental life, the sheer amount of diagnoses that it proposed ensured that psychiatrists would have no shortage of patients to treat.
In concluding my Introduction, I would like to lay out particular definitions that I will use in my thesis. Psychiatry is the study and treatment of mental illnesses or mental suffering by individuals with medical training, specifically those with MD degrees or the international equivalent. Psychoanalysis is the name for the general psychological theory (or theories) devised by Freud, emphasizing unconscious drives and early childhood experiences. Psychodynamic or dynamic psychiatry was psychiatry that used psychoanalytic theory in the treatment of the mentally ill. It contrasts with diagnostic psychiatry, which used a "medical model" consisting of discrete diagnoses in interpreting and treating mental illness.
To say that psychoanalysis has grown stagnant as a scientific field may at first seem a sweeping and completely unwarranted claim. After all, in terms of producing new branches of thought, psychoanalytic theory has undoubtedly proven an expansive and fruitful domain; to argue that psychoanalytic progress suddenly stopped after Freud would require answering to object relations theory, ego psychology, self psychology, and Lacanian psychoanalysis, to name but a few. Furthermore, rather than dying with Freud in 1939, psychoanalysis produced these subfields through a variety of different thinkers—the role of Melanie Klein, Anna Freud, Heinz Kohut, and Jacques Lacan in their respective theories above seem to demonstrate that psychoanalysis was not a one-man show after all. In fact, it was during the decades immediately following Freud’s death that dynamic psychiatry was at the peak of its influence in the United States. Given the proliferation of new models and theories of psychoanalytic thought under an equally diverse group of psychoanalysts, on what grounds could the argument that psychoanalysis failed to produce visible and useful knowledge possibly possess any merit?
The answer is in the question: it was precisely the sheer amount and diversity of psychoanalytic subfields that delegitimized psychoanalysis as a whole: the presence of such diversity of opinion within the same field undermined the authority of any one subfield. Rather than adding to a collective fund of psychoanalytic knowledge, each of these different subfields took a different approach to psychoanalytic theory and practice. Former American Psychiatric Association president Alan Stone said:
Today, at least in my opinion, and I am not entirely alone in thinking this, neither Anna Freud's Ego Psychology nor Melanie Klein's Object Relations Theory seem like systematic advances on Freud's ideas. Rather they seem like divergent schools of thought, no closer to Freud than Karen Horney who rebelled against Freudian orthodoxy.
The frequent emergence of these competing "divergent schools of thought" and their dissenting followers, then, made any developments in psychoanalysis seem to other scientists less like legitimate scientific discoveries and more like competing hypotheses.  In contrast with more established fields like biology, innovations in psychoanalysis often seemed to contradict earlier psychoanalytic ideas as well as one another, frequently forming branches and sub-branches without regard to maintaining any sort of continuity or internal consistency in psychoanalysis as a whole.
In fact, many of these developments were reactionary in nature, responding to other trends in psychoanalysis rather than to new clinical data. This is the case of Heinz Kohut’s development of self psychology, which was a reaction against the subfields of ego psychology and classical drive theory. The revival of American interest in the work of Melanie Klein in the second half of the twentieth century has also been described as a reaction against ego psychology. Furthermore, never did one of these new theories thoroughly abrogate and replace a previous one in the way that, for example, Einstein’s theory of general relativity transformed Newtonian physics. 
This is not to say that a new idea in psychoanalysis would not have been met with resistance upon its introduction; however, it soon proved that psychoanalysis on the whole lacked the tools that other disciplines had to debunk or prove new theories. By what criteria could psychoanalysts reject or accept a new hypothesis? In physics, a new model was expected to be compatible with currently available data, as well as able to make predictions to be confirmed by observation; similarly, a new pharmaceutical drug was expected to prove itself by beating a control in a double-blind trial. But such criteria, even if psychoanalysts wanted to use them, were not as conveniently applied to unconscious phenomena proposed by psychoanalysis. 
Even the gathering of data from clinical psychotherapy was typically unable to resolve the conflict between two competing subfields; problematically, any clinical data that could potentially prove the efficacy of one psychoanalytic school could be interpreted to support others as well. In an article for Psychoanalytic Psychology, psychologist Robert Holt, even as he argued for the validity of psychoanalysis as a "testable scientific theory," admitted the difficulty of producing data that could settle disputes between psychoanalytic and non-psychoanalytic theories, let alone between schools within psychoanalysis:
All too often, the full set of data used to confirm a particular clinical hypothesis (and which therefore partly confirm the special clinical hypotheses entailed in it) are equally compatible with another set of general hypotheses. For example, we are familiar with the fact that followers of non-Freudian schools of analysis or of nonpsychoanalytic clinical theories are ready with their own explanations of our cases. It is commonplace that most of these theories, with incompatible general hypotheses, are about equally capable of accommodating one another's data. All of them seem to be confirmed in clinical practice, but they cannot all be true.
Observation and case studies, mainstays in the production of psychoanalytic knowledge, did not have the capability of rejecting new branches of psychoanalysis: observation might vary from analyst to analyst, and the narrative nature of case studies made them more likely to respond to changing fashions in psychoanalytic theory than to refute or support them. Because psychoanalysis lacked the scientific means or even the scientific criteria to identify a new theory as false and repudiate it, these branches went unpruned, until psychoanalysis was filled with them. Thus, the abundance of new schools of thought in psychoanalysis after Freud was, in fact, an overabundance: this vast proliferation of new ideas and models can be said to demonstrate the fruitfulness of Freud’s original theory only in that it publicly showcased an apparent epistemic inability on the part of psychoanalysis to reject any new hypotheses—except, perhaps, by means of partisan polemic. 
It might also be argued that the continuing creation of psychoanalytic literature could function as proof of psychoanalysis’ development as a field, that the shelves and shelves of clinical journals were more than sufficient evidence of psychoanalysis’ growth and expansion. Certainly, psychoanalysis’ ability to inspire new and endlessly original books and journal articles could not be denied; however, far from demonstrating psychoanalysis’ capability of producing new information that pushes forward the field as a whole, the actual publication of these books and journals provides an interesting case study in evidence of the contrary. Historian of medicine Paul Stepansky claims that "journals such as [Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Foundation] and Psychoanalytic Quarterly now accept the reality of theoretical pluralism" and publish accordingly, accepting papers from a range of different subfields of psychoanalysis. As even Theodore Shapiro, a psychoanalyst and former editor of the Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Foundation, conceded in a 1989 editorial in that very journal, "Even within analysis ‘not-so-complementary explanations’ abound. We may now be said to variously espouse ego psychology, self psychology, separation-individuation, and object-relations psychology. Many say that these are simply viewpoints, but too often they seem to be alternative explanations." Given the role of journals in the dissemination of a field’s knowledge, it is difficult to ignore such a declaration of pluralism in psychoanalysis when it comes from an editor of the most prominent journal in the field. 
Even as psychoanalytic literature expanded (and expands today) to accommodate the huge range of these "alternative explanations," in terms of print runs the publications themselves were and are dying out. Stepansky, also the former Managing Director of the publishing company The Analytic Press, Inc., writes:
When I arrived at The Analytic Press in 1983, my default print run for authored and edited books alike was 1,500 copies. That is, I could reasonably expect to sell at least 1,500 copies of everything we published. Between 1983 and 2006, this default print run fell successively to 1,200 copies, then 1,000 copies, and ended up at 700 to 800 copies for many authored books.
Stepansky attributes this to the "fractionation" of psychoanalysis into an assortment of competing, rather than supporting, schools of thoughts, and the consequent inability of publishing firms to move enough copies of books to continue publishing them. Stepansky argues that "the very idea of a big psychoanalytic book no longer exists, for the simple reason that the field is neither big enough nor cohesive enough nor influential enough to yield indigenously big books"; thus, psychoanalysis in its "dispiritedly pseudoentirety" lacks both the influence and self-coherence necessary to attract nonanalytic therapists to its books. Stepansky concludes:
Psychoanalytic publishing is not failing because it cannot produce big books that pull together the various theoretical islands into which the field has drifted. It is failing because, owning to this selfsame fractionation and the simultaneous contraction of the field, its good-enough books are no longer good enough to keep small professional firms in business.
Thus, it is difficult to argue that the creation of new texts is evidence of psychoanalysis’ ability to grow as a discipline when psychoanalytic literature is in a state of fractionation and disappearance.
Even as psychoanalysis splintered to the point where theoretical pluralism became the norm for psychoanalytic books and journals, its progress was hindered, paradoxically, by a certain lack of originality: even as new theories sprang up prolifically, these ideas exhibited a difficulty in moving past Freud. An analysis of these ideas reveals that this difficulty was not due to a mere lack of creativity or effort on the part of psychoanalysts; rather, it was because Freud had taken on a function that exceeded his role as the founder of psychoanalysis. 
In many cases, this meant that fidelity to Freud became a criterion for acceptance within the psychoanalytic community. This can be shown by the case of Otto Rank. Rank was an early disciple of Freud’s; Freud affectionately referred to him as a "bright and honest boy." Rank even sat on Freud’s secret committee, an "inner circle" of the six psychoanalysts closest to Freud, which lasted in its initial form from 1912 to 1924. This committee, which formed in the wake of Alfred Adler’s and Wilhelm Stekel’s departures from Freud’s theories as well as Carl Jung’s anticipated defection, was specifically dedicated to helping Freud respond to critics. The central agreements of this committee ensured loyalty in Freud’s closest followers; as Sulloway notes, "No member of the committee was to depart publicly from any of the fundamental tenets of psychoanalysis without first discussing his views with the others." Freud even distributed ceremonial rings to this secret committee.
Thus, it came as a surprise to Freud and the committee when Rank published The Trauma of Birth in 1924. In this book, Rank deviated from Freud’s idea of the Oedipus complex as the source of all neuroses as well as art, religion, and philosophy, instead proposing the traumatic pain of being born as the "prototype of all later attacks of fear." This was not a small deviation: Freud had made the Oedipus complex the basis of psychoanalysis, and Rank was asserting that Oedipal conflicts with the father were just "a mask for the essential ones concerning birth" and the mother. Rank, even by coining the term "pre-Oedipal," had committed heresy. Freud’s reaction to birth trauma was initially mixed but soon turned hostile. Ernest Jones, biographer of Freud and member of the secret committee himself, quotes Freud as saying, "I believe it will ‘fall flat’ if one does not criticize it too sharply, and then Rank, whom I value for his gifts and the great service he has rendered, will have learned a useful lesson."
In the meantime, Rank visited America, and shared the news that "the ‘old’ psychoanalysis had been quite superseded by his new discoveries." This claim met with a cool reception. Abraham Brill, for example, an influential psychoanalyst whose achievements included founding the New York Psychoanalytic Society, translating Freud into English for the first time, and being the first practicing psychoanalyst in the United States, had one reaction: he simply "wanted to know what Freud had to say about it all." 
Rank’s reception in America was dimmed by further ostracization from Freud’s committee back in Europe. After a short period of rather cold correspondence, the ideological tension between Freud and Rank soon turned personal: Freud said, "When he comes to his senses it will of course be the time… to forgive him all his divagations. I dare not hope for that, however; experience shows that once the devil is loose he goes his way to the very end." This strong reaction caused Sándor Ferenczi, a member of the committee who was very close to Rank, who had coauthored a book with Rank the same year that Rank released The Trauma of Birth, and who had originally extolled the improved clinical outcomes of psychoanalysis based on Rank’s birth trauma theory, to think that he had placed himself on the "losing" team. Jones writes, "[Ferenczi] had been on the edge of a precipice, and he now drew himself back in an unmistakable fashion. He announced to Freud after reading Rank’s rude letter that he had definitely turned his back on him."
Rank returned to Vienna to say goodbye to Freud and share with the committee his intention to move to and work in America semi-permanently. Rank, who had been diagnosed with what is now called bipolar disorder, almost immediately fell into a depressive state, not making it past Paris on his journey back to America. Rank delivered a wholehearted apology to both the committee and Freud, who received his apology gladly. However, this state of affairs did not last long, and in 1926, Rank once again said goodbye to Freud and departed Vienna. 
Rank died a little more than ten years later, and his post-Freud efforts did not prove particularly fruitful. Freud rarely mentioned him, and when he did, it was not usually in positive ways. For the most part, "All that mattered to Freud was that [his] work should be clearly differentiated from psychoanalysis." Thus, Rank’s theory of birth trauma, which was originally received with great enthusiasm by many members of the committee, proved to signal the end of his career when Freud’s opinion of it shifted from undecided to negative, thereby changing its status from psychoanalytic to non-psychoanalytic.
It is easy to use an example like Rank, a contemporary and disciple of Freud, to show how Freud governed psychoanalytic discourse in his lifetime. But what of psychoanalysis after Freud? In fact, post-Freudian psychoanalysts operated no more independently from Freud’s influence than Rank did. This is perfectly illustrated in the work of Jacques Lacan. Though he produced much original work and gathered his own crowd of followers, Lacan began his career not with a move forward, but a move back, in that his most notable idea was that of a "return to Freud": a rereading of Freud’s works through the lens of linguistics, mathematics, and contemporary philosophy. It is not mere coincidence that one of the most notable ideas from one of the most notable thinkers in the field of psychoanalysis should be defined primarily by his relationship with its founder; in fact, Lacan’s case is quite characteristic of the nature of progress in psychoanalytic thought in that it is constantly mediated by Freud’s original work.
The relationship of Lacan’s work to Freud’s is complex. Though it has been argued that Lacan remains the only psychoanalyst whose ideas bear serious comparison to Freud’s own, his work was produced—and received—not independently, but as part of a perpetual conversation with his predecessor. Thus, to say that Lacan work was unable to operate independently from Freud is not to say that Lacan was merely rehashing old Freudian ideas—Malcolm Bowie argues that even his "return to Freud" was "conducted on Freud’s behalf, and at the same time, against him." It is merely to say that, whether he is assenting to or dissenting with Freud, he is always operating within the sphere of his influence: Freud remains an essential reference.
Sometimes, this involved Lacan deliberately working Freud’s authority to his advantage, attributing, for rhetorical purposes, his own ideas to Freud; Dany Nobus argues that in order for the ideas in Lacan’s "return to Freud" to succeed, he needed to justify the necessity of his project by showing how the French psychoanalytic establishment had been misinterpreting Freud. But the authority that came with Freud’s name proved a double-edged sword for Lacan: on the occasions when Lacan truly did break away from Freud, it often proved detrimental to both his career and the reception of his work. This is seen most notably in Lacan’s prime clinical contribution: the "variable-length" therapy session. For Lacan, it seemed that the therapy session should not end after a "fifty minute hour," the norm for psychoanalysis at the time, but in order to punctuate a conversation between analyst and analysand. End the session was itself intended to function as an analytic technique, enabling the analyst to highlight a significant breakthrough had been made (or simply to prevent an analysand from wasting time). Rather than bury such breakthroughs with further talk until the requisite fifty minutes had elapsed, he argued, the timing of the session should be determined by analytic progress. For Lacan, this meant that sessions sometimes ran just a few minutes. Predictably, this innovation was highly upsetting to the psychoanalytic establishment. Lacan’s critics alleged a financial motive: the ability of an analyst to end sessions when they wanted meant that they could see more patients in an hour, and "variable-length sessions" typically meant "short sessions," as Lacan’s opponents rechristened them. As Sherry Turkle notes, "[O]f course, patients want to know why the Lacanian analyst never wants to ‘shake up’ the routine by keeping them for more rather than less time."
More important, though, Lacan had committed a fatal error: he had broken from Freud. Though Freud did not always meet for hour-long sessions, when he diverged from this pattern, it was usually for longer sessions, not shorter. In any case, Lacan had taken the authority to make a radical change in his clinical technique without grounding it in Freud. Nobus writes, "With the introduction of the variable-length sessions, Lacan, of course, favored a technical principle that had not featured as such within Freud’s original discourse, and this lack of Freudian justification no doubt contributed to his being perceived as deviating dangerously from a central aspect of psychoanalytic practice."
Lacan tried to establish a Freudian basis for his innovation retroactively, but the damage was done; for other psychoanalysts, this innovation was too much to bear. Lacan, under intense fire from the other members of the Société Parisienne de Psychanalyse, the dominant psychoanalytic group in France at this time, left the group and founded his own with other estranged analysts in 1953. This new institution, though, due to its affiliation with Lacan, was unable to join the International Psychoanalytical Association (IPA), and ten years later, when the IPA offered the group the ability to join their ranks on the condition that Lacan be stripped of his status as a training analyst, they accepted. 
Foucault’s seminal essay "What is an Author?" offers a critical standpoint in examining the inability of analysts like Rank and Lacan fully to move past Freud. According to Foucault, authors are not merely the creators of texts; they constitute a function by which such texts are organized. When these authors become what Foucault terms "founders of discursivity," they "become more than just the authors of their own works. They have produced something else: the possibilities and the rules for the formation of other texts." However inspired Rank or Lacan’s ideas may have been, in order to qualify as psychoanalytic they needed to situate themselves within a Freudian discourse, which is to say that their texts were governed by the rules initiated by its founder.
Thus, when such authors become the organizing principle for texts in a particular discourse, it is impossible to distance a work fully from the founder of that discourse if one is to remain within that discourse; Foucault writes of "the inevitable necessity, within these fields of discursivity, for a ‘return to the origin.’" This was certainly the case in post-Freudian psychoanalysis: in fact, Foucault’s mention of the "return to the origin" is a direct reference to Lacan, who was present at Foucault’s reading of the paper and participated with interest in the discussion that followed. Foucault continues, "Reexamination of Galileo’s text may well change our understanding of the history of mechanics, but it will never be able to change mechanics itself. On the other hand, reexamining Freud’s texts modifies psychoanalysis itself…" That is, though a discourse may change over time, in some cases (Foucault mentions Freud and Marx) it is still fundamentally bound to the works of that discourse’s founder, which generate criteria for judging whether or not a subsequent work actually belongs to the discourse in question. Jean-Michel Rabaté, in the Cambridge Companion to Lacan, summarizes thusly: "[I]f Marxism and psychoanalysis do not have the status of hard sciences, it is because they are still in debt to the texts of a founder…" Unlike other disciplines (Foucault uses the example of physics), progress in psychoanalysis is mediated through and restricted by its founder.
 In his address to the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, Stone asked, "What is there about Freud's vision that has made his monumental work a limiting factor rather than a scaffolding on which others can stand?" Foucault states that, though the future of such discourses is likely (or even necessarily) characterized by divergences from their founders, they may never directly contradict them. One can avoid statements by a founder of discursivity if they can be "deemed inessential" or "derived from another type of discursivity," but, crucially, "one does not declare certain propositions in the work of these founders to be false…" In this, we find the answer to Stone’s question. Like the ideological fractionation that plagued psychoanalysis through the 20th century, Freud’s authority and inescapable influence imposed constraints on psychoanalysis that stunted its ability to achieve meaningful intellectual expansion and develop itself as a scientific discipline. 
In his 1995 keynote address to the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, Alan Stone, a graduate of the Boston Psychoanalytic Institute and former president of the American Psychiatric Association, made a surprising declaration: he and the other "faithful" had become disillusioned with psychoanalysis and its critics appeared correct. He claimed that psychoanalysis was not an "adequate form of treatment" and psychoanalysis’ future lay in the arts and humanities. He went on to suggest that psychoanalysis should be used therapeutically only after a patient’s actual symptoms had been dealt with. At the root of psychoanalysis’ failure as a medical science, Stone argued, was the fact that psychoanalysis did not function as a "cumulative discipline."
Though the occasion for Stone’s declaration was surprising, its timing was not. Psychoanalysis had been consistently declining in popularity with the public and within science for several decades. By 1990, a survey by the American Psychoanalytic Association found that its analysts were seeing, on average, only two patients for analysis a week. Stone, in arguing for the persistence of psychoanalysis in the arts and humanities but not in psychiatry or clinical treatment, and in deeming Freud an "artist/subjectivist/philosopher" rather than a "physician/objectivist/scientist," highlighted one of the most salient factors in psychoanalysis’ perceived failure as a psychiatric tool: Freud, though a genius, was a thinker, an interpreter, not a scientist: he had created a field of study that was simply not objective enough to function as a science. Stone, giving the example of Freud’s explanation of religious asceticism, said, "A marvelous subjective speculation—I find it persuasive, but is it empirical? Is it based on objective data?"
These questions had haunted psychoanalysis long before Stone’s speech, but Stone’s phrasing highlights psychoanalysis’ struggles perfectly. Stone claims that Freud’s methods are "not recognizable as science," but in the same sentence admits that he knows of "no other work in psychiatry or psychology… so immediately convincing." What psychoanalysis suffered from, in other words, was a shift in the culture’s prime concern from "Is it useful?" or even "Is it true?" to "Is it empirical? Is it based on objective data?" The historical rise of the concept of objectivity and scientific empiricism to a position of dominance in medicine was, for psychoanalysis, simply poor timing.
One of the most significant ways in which psychoanalysis was unable to adapt to changing standards of medicine was its inability to move past the case study as the primary means of gathering and disseminating psychoanalytic discoveries. The case study was of great use in the dynamic model because it allowed the sort of in-depth analysis of a patient that was necessary to meet the conditions of psychoanalytic knowledge; when exploring the complexities of the unconscious, texts that focused on thoroughly uncovering the psychological state of one patient would be more informative than studies of multiple patients at once.
As with many trademarks of psychoanalysis, the prevalence of the case study in dynamic psychiatry can be traced back to Freud, who used six detailed case studies after developing psychoanalytic therapy. Freud used these case studies as ways of entering into a particular diagnosis or to demonstrate a particular technique—treatment via dream interpretation, for example, was demonstrated in the case study of "Dora," a teenager Freud diagnosed with hysteria, in Fragments of an Analysis of a Case of Hysteria. He even used his own experiences as the subject of case studies, such as his analysis of the dream he titled "Irma’s Injection" in The Interpretation of Dreams. 
Despite the curious fact that these case studies involved mostly patients whose therapy was, by Freud’s own admission, unsuccessful, the central role of the case study in dynamic psychiatry persisted well after Freud’s death in 1939. In 1952, for example, the influential dynamic psychiatrist Karl Menninger published his Manual for Psychiatric Case Study, which was warmly received. And in 1965, a dedicated Freudian named Kurt Eissler declared case studies "the pillars on which psychoanalysis as an empirical science rests."
In fact, the case study as a means of presenting research was originally a standard and accepted practice in all branches of medicine, not just psychiatry. However, it began to fall out of favor in medicine in the middle of the twentieth century, largely due to the development of research techniques that were designed to produce truth free from subjective error in a manner that the case study could not. One such development was the double-blind trial, in which neither the test subjects nor the experimenters are aware of which subjects are receiving treatment and which are receiving the placebo. The development of this revolutionary new technique coincided very closely with dynamic psychiatry’s decline. Ken Alder writes, "Shortly after the start of the Cold War… double-blind reviews became the norm for conducting scientific medical research, as well as the means by which peers evaluated scholarship." Other scholars confirm this dating. (Marcia Meldrum links the growth in popularity of double-blind trials at this time to the need of the booming pharmaceutical industry to establish the credibility with the public.) The double-blind trial’s conscious rejection of the role of the professional stands in stark contrast to the case study, which by its very nature is inseparable from the experience, knowledge, and authority—which is to say, subjectivity—of the professional. In the creation of a case study, the subject speaks face-to-face with the professional, who is the same one to record information gathered from sessions, and is the same one to interpret it. 
The large role of the professional in the production of the case study opens it up to more than just the mere threat of bias; the subjectivity of the professional is, in fact, an integral component of the case study. Stepansky makes this point by contrasting the interpretation of the mind in the case study to the interpretation of heart sounds: 
The sounds heard by the analyst are very different: They are verbal expressions of complex mental "productions," which are themselves embedded in dense life narratives. How does the analyst hear these sounds? He listens through a theoretical filter that translates sounds into meaningful, narratively embedded utterances. This filter… comprises not only a theory (or theoretical sensibility) but also the analyst’s own subjective personhood, his or her own unique subjectivity.
Thus, the creation of the case study is not merely vulnerable to the subjectivity of the therapist; it is predicated on it. 
Far from meeting the criteria for objectivity that was growing ever more important to science in the 1960s, the case history began to seem less like a research method and more like a literary form. Interestingly, though Freud never won the Nobel Prize in medicine, Thomas Mann and other literary notables of the day publicly advocated for him to be awarded the Nobel Prize in literature, and he did win the Goethe Prize, a literary award, in 1930. Freud observed, "[I]t still strikes me myself as strange that the case histories I write should read like short stories and that, as one might say, they lack the serious stamp of science. I must console myself with the reflection that the nature of the subject is evidently responsible for this, rather than any preference of my own."  
The last sentence of this quotation is particularly interesting: Freud not only recognized that case studies had scientific shortcomings in the eyes of others; he considered these shortcomings to be intrinsic to psychoanalysis. There is no way to write a psychoanalytic case study, Freud implied, that is free of the subjective influence of the therapist. In this sense, the case study is to the therapist as the short story is to the fiction author; the creative role and talent (or idiosyncrasy) of the therapist cannot be divorced from the creation of the case study. On the inescapable influence of the individual therapist in psychoanalytic research, Horwitz writes:
[H]ow could anyone be shown not to have an Oedipal complex when protestations that one had no such desires were taken as evidence of 
resistance to admitting its presence [Hale 1995]? Freud, for example, interpreted his patients’ refusal to accept his interpretations of their symptoms as confirmations of his theory of repression.
In short, the therapist-as-author has the authority to interpret anything the subject says or does, which allows the therapist to make the subject’s testimony fit the therapist’s overall narrative of the case study. Therefore, though Freud was rather dismissive of the literary rather than scientific appearance of the case study, attributing it not to his own talent as a writer but to the nature of psychoanalysis itself, it is clear in the quotation above (originally published in 1895 in Studies on Hysteria) that Freud did not anticipate the extent to which allegations of not being scientific would eventually come to haunt psychoanalysis: by the criteria of scientific objectivity as it became conceptualized in the second half of the twentieth century, case studies simply could not accurately represent their subjects, so the knowledge they produced—if they could be considered to produce any at all—could not be given the label "scientific."
The role of this apparent subjectivity in the decline of psychoanalysis is reflected by the difficulty of translating case studies into the cumulative knowledge that Stone felt psychoanalysis needed. Data gathered from surveys can be added to, and experiments can be replicated, but each case study is a standalone endeavor as unique as the individual subject. Furthermore, any psychoanalyst who wishes to "cross-examine" the patient in another psychoanalyst’s case study is likely to be prevented due to confidentiality restrictions, and so even individual case studies are unable to be replicated or added to (except once they are published, when individual psychoanalysts can dispute interpretations or cite them as evidence for their own hypotheses). 
One important criterion for scientific objectivity that increasingly came into play during the twentieth century was that data gathered from separate studies should theoretically be consistent across studies, given certain conditions (e.g. the experiment is performed correctly, the sample size is large enough, etc.); that is, the experiment would be reproducible. Reproducibility was increasingly considered a prerequisite for knowledge to count as "science." In The Logic of Scientific Discovery, Karl Popper famously declared, "Non-reproducible single occurrences are of no significance to science." In addition to its growing role as a criterion of objectivity, reproducibility also opens up the possibility of repeating the inquiry with certain variations to explore a subject thoroughly. In short, reproducibility means that knowledge can be cumulative: because experiments can be repeated with everything held the same except a single manipulated variable, the conclusions drawn from the study can be relatively easily added to and integrated with previous knowledge on the subject. 
The ability of reproducibility to create cumulative knowledge did not work for the case study. The inescapable possibility that two psychoanalysts could draw two different conclusions from the same patient frustrated the possibility of reliably building upon the knowledge gained from a case study. Thus, despite Eissler’s claim for the fundamental role of the case study in psychoanalysis’ status as an empirical science, this method, unlike other research methods, was not useful to psychiatry in its quest for scientific legitimacy: the case study was incapable of producing a body of knowledge that met the criteria of being "scientific" according to the standards of the era.
In 1982, the growing tension between the theoretical approach of psychoanalysis on the one hand and the drive toward objectivity and empiricism in the rest of science on the other culminated in a major public embarrassment for psychoanalysis: Rafael Osheroff’s lawsuit against the Chestnut Lodge. Osheroff, a 42-year-old nephrologist from Virginia, was admitted to the psychoanalytically-inclined Chestnut Lodge in Baltimore for severe depression in 1979. During his seven-month stay, Osheroff engaged in regular psychotherapy sessions, but, despite his requests and despite some success with medications prior to his admission to the Lodge, he was denied medication. If Osheroff wanted to make genuine and permanent progress, his caretakers argued, he must regress to the point in his childhood from which his symptoms sprung; relieving his symptoms with medications would, therefore, only impede progress.
Dr. Osheroff’s life began to unravel. During his stay, he lost forty pounds, developed severe insomnia, and his feet began to bleed from feverish pacing. He eventually managed to transfer to another clinic, the Silver Hill Foundation, where he was given medication. His symptoms improved after three weeks, and he was discharged after only three months (with no relapse in the next decade). However, the damage had been done: Osheroff returned home to find his wife had left him, he had lost custody of his children, and he had been forced out of his joint practice by his partner. 
Osheroff sued the Chestnut Lodge for malpractice in 1982, claiming that, by being denied medications whose efficacy was well established in favor of a psychotherapeutic regime that, if anything, made him worse, he was denied state-of-the-art medical treatment. Osheroff was awarded $250,000 by an arbitration panel, but both plaintiff and defendant appealed. Eventually a settlement for an undisclosed sum was agreed upon.
The Osheroff case certainly constituted a humiliating moment for psychoanalysis: it appeared that psychoanalysis was so ineffective in treatment of depression that its therapeutic failure had become a legal issue. Perhaps more significantly, though, the case seemed to highlight what many felt was an inescapable shortcoming of psychoanalysis: it simply did not subject itself to the new techniques of objectivity that other sciences were undergoing. In an article titled "The Psychiatric Patient’s Right to Effective Treatment" for the American Journal of Psychiatry, Gerald Klerman, a prominent Harvard psychiatrist who had testified on behalf of Osheroff, claimed:
With regard to all kinds of therapeutics…the most scientifically valid evidence as to the safety and efficacy of a treatment comes from randomized controlled trials when these are available. Although there may be other methods of generating evidence, such as naturalistic and follow-up studies, the most convincing evidence comes from randomized controlled trials.
For Klerman and others, it was that simple: the best, most scientific kind of evidence was that which came from controlled trials, and controlled trials supported the efficacy of antidepressants while controlled trials supporting psychoanalysis were lacking; ergo, withholding medication from Osheroff was, objectively, the wrong choice.
Through the Chestnut Lodge trial, psychoanalysis suffered a major blow to its credibility with the public, within psychiatry, and with other physicians and scientists. Though no legal precedent was set by the case, the result was that psychiatrists were given the impression that treating serious mental illness with psychoanalysis could potentially constitute malpractice. More importantly, though, the Chestnut Lodge incident marked the climax of the growing pressure on psychoanalysis to be objective. The title of Klerman’s article (not to mention the fact that psychoanalysis’ legal status was called into question) was just one part of a much broader trend in public and scientific opinion: psychoanalysis’ lack of objectivity was not just unscientific—it was dangerous.
Dynamic psychiatry was not practiced in a vacuum, and it is difficult to analyze how psychoanalysis disappeared from psychiatry without comparing psychoanalysis to competing ideologies and practices. Perhaps the most important of these competing ideologies was diagnostic psychiatry. As the name suggests, the shift to diagnostic psychiatry consisted in a tremendous proliferation and utilization of medical diagnoses in psychiatry. Diagnoses had been used in American psychiatry for centuries, if only in categorizing the seriously ill patients in mental asylums. But the "diagnostic revolution" led to a tremendous increase in both the number and use of such diagnoses, such that there was an 800% increase in psychiatric diagnoses in the last fifty years of the twentieth century. The possibilities created by the formation of a set of expansive but discrete diagnoses were too tempting for the discipline of psychiatry to ignore. Diagnostic psychiatry offered something that psychoanalysis could not—a way to organize and systemize (and, as I will argue later, fund) the production of knowledge. 
Dynamic and diagnostic psychiatry were, to a large extent, two models that contradicted each other. Diagnostic psychiatrists were more likely to use medications in treatment; dynamic psychiatrists, despite having medical training, preferred to use analysis and eschewed the pharmacological approach. There was one similarity, however: both models treated domains of conditions that encompassed a broad range of behaviors and emotions. Mayes and Horwitz write, "By the 1970s, the clients of dynamic psychiatrists were people with poor marriages, troubled children, failed ambitions, general nervousness, and diffuse anxiety." Horwitz argues that the broad range of conditions treated by diagnostic psychiatry was directly inherited from dynamic psychiatry. That said, psychoanalysis as a theory did not neatly distinguish between the pathological and the normal in the way that diagnostic psychiatry did; rather, the healthy and the neurotic were simply ends of a continuum. 
Thus, the emergence of the diagnostic model in psychiatry constituted nothing less than the formation of an entirely new discourse, one that combined the implicit authority of a medical diagnosis with a framework for building up scientific knowledge in psychiatry. The Kuhnian model of scientific revolution proves useful in describing the significance of this change: the movement to diagnostic psychiatry represents a paradigm shift in American psychiatry. Horwitz writes:
In Kuhn’s view, a transformation from one thought community to another rarely arises out of the development of new knowledge; instead, such change is only undertaken in order to resolve a state of crisis in the previously dominant paradigm. The new model gains acceptance not so much because it more accurately characterizes the natural world as because it is better able to justify the social practices of the relevant discipline.
This very accurately describes the case of the shift from psychodynamic to diagnostic psychiatry in American psychiatry in the second half of the twentieth century. As I will argue later in this chapter, the shift to the diagnosis in American psychiatry was not based on growing evidence for the validity of the diagnosis, the medical model, or the understanding of mental suffering in terms of discrete illness analogous to biological illnesses; rather, the diagnosis became popular in American psychiatry because it addressed the perceived shortcomings of psychoanalysis. The "crisis in the previous dominant paradigm," in the case of American dynamic psychiatry, was, in short, that psychoanalysis faced difficulties in meeting the sociocultural pressure to produce knowledge. The new model that was "better able to justify the social practices of the relevant discipline" was diagnostic psychiatry, which became popular because it enabled a more systemized (and hence more easily funded) way of studying mental distress.
Before the tension between psychoanalysis and diagnostic psychiatry can be examined, it is important to establish a brief history of the diagnosis in American psychiatry. This history is most easily told through the creation and evolution of texts offering up diagnostic systems, in particular the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The DSM, published by the American Psychiatric Association, is a text containing a collection of mental illnesses and their diagnostic criteria. It has been published in several editions and revisions since the DSM’s first publication in 1952 (DSM-I), with the DSM-V being the most recent edition, released in May 2013. 
There were attempts to establish classificatory systems well before the publication of the first edition of the DSM. One such attempt was the 1918 Statistical Manual for the use of Institutions for the Insane, a joint effort by the American Medico-Psychological Association (which later became the APA) and the National Committee for Mental Hygiene. The purpose of this manual was to standardize the data reports made annually by mental hospitals in the United States. 
The publication of the DSM-I was another significant step in the shift to diagnostic psychiatry. Published in 1952, the DSM-I was a direct result of the large demand for and changing responsibilities of psychiatry in the wake of World War II; the demand on psychiatry to provide assessment and treatment of soldiers created the necessary conditions for the formation of a text like the DSM-I. Though containing an impressive 106 diagnoses, the DSM-I did not conflict with psychoanalysis in the way that diagnostic psychiatry eventually did. In fact, the DSM-I came out of a classificatory scheme called Medical 203 created for the Army by a prominent psychodynamic psychiatrist named William Menninger, and the DSM-I is consequently highly inflected by psychodynamic thought.
The first revision of the DSM took the form of the DSM-II, published in 1968. The DSM-II no longer characterized mental disorders using the psychoanalytic term "reaction" (although it retained the term "neurosis"), but like its predecessor, it reflected the psychodynamic thought dominant in American psychiatry at that time.
The turning point of the "diagnostic revolution," is widely held to be the publication of the DSM-III in 1980. Similar to its predecessors but larger in scope, the DSM-III was at least partially a reaction to growing concerns that the United States and other countries were diagnosing mental disorders in different ways—it seemed, for example, that English psychiatrists diagnosed bipolar disorder significantly more often, and schizophrenia significantly less often, than American psychiatrists. This seemed at least partially due to the disproportionate influence of psychoanalysis in American psychiatry compared with other countries at this time. This led to increased pressure for standardizing diagnostic criteria internationally. The DSM-III was published in 1980 and contained 265 diagnoses. 
t was in the publication of the DSM-III that the conflict between dynamic and diagnostic psychiatry reached its apex. Despite being created by a committee chaired by Robert Spitzer, a psychiatrist with dynamic leanings, the DSM-III, unlike the DSM-I or DSM–II, did not attempt to incorporate psychoanalytic theory almost at all. The DSM-III created its own problems for psychiatry—it was widely criticized for pathologizing normal human behaviors, such as tobacco dependence and poor attention span in children (in a 2007 interview, Spitzer himself estimated that, after the DSM-III was published, 20 or 30 percent of the population were misdiagnosed as having a mental disorder). However, the shift to the diagnostic model, despite the issues in public relations it presented, proved beneficial for psychiatry’s authority on the whole. The rigorous laying out of specific criteria in the various editions of the DSM and its precursors was a direct attempt to standardize the classification of mental distress, and thereby to solve the problems posed to research by the psychoanalyst’s subjectivity that are outlined in Chapter 2. 
The clash between the psychoanalytic community and the creators of the DSM-III was, in fact, strongly symbolic of the shift from the dynamic to the diagnostic perspective as a whole. Despite critiques that it neither added anything new to our understanding of mental illness nor correctly represented its nature, the diagnostic perspective prevailed by virtue of its implicit scientific authority. Classificatory systems, though a tool of "objective" science, are not always innocent, as Foucault established in The Order of Things, nor are they free from subjectivity: Gerald Grob, for one, in reference to the development of psychiatric nosology, writes:
Classification systems are neither inherently self-evident nor given. On the contrary, they emerge from the crucible of human experience; change and variability, not immutability, are characteristic. Indeed, the ways in which data are organized at various times reflect specific historical circumstances. Empirical data, after all, can be presented and analyzed in endless varieties of ways.
Though the objectivity of classificatory systems is itself unreliable, it is certainly true that it was viewed as objective, and therefore psychiatry was able to ground its authority in a classificatory model, like the rest of biology and medicine. 
Revisiting the Kuhnian approach to the shift to the diagnostic model, it is not difficult to see the underlying social pressures predicted by Kuhn’s model: the movement to classification greatly augmented the scientific credibility of psychiatry as a whole. The complement to the idea that scientific change is motivated by social factors, though, is that it is not necessarily motivated by scientific developments. This is demonstrably true in the history of the DSM-III. The DSM-III caused controversy for a number of reasons, but particularly for its alleged emphasis on reliability (that is, defining diagnoses in such a way that multiple psychiatrists would diagnose the same patient the same way) over validity (defining diagnoses to actually describe the mental illness as accurately as possible)—in short, an emphasis on consistent diagnosis rather than meaningful diagnosis. Creating and defining mental illnesses in a way that prioritized reliable diagnosis became a priority of the creators of the DSM-III; Decker says simply, "For Spitzer, reliability trumped validity."
Perhaps unsurprisingly, on the other side of the "reliability versus validity" debate were the dynamic psychiatrists. These psychoanalytically trained psychiatrists commonly complained that the deliberately "atheoretical" approach taken by the creators of the DSM-III in the name of objectivity completely eschewed the etiological insights offered by the psychodynamic perspective, which was still the dominant view in psychiatry at that time. Many psychoanalysts felt that this snub was inherent in the nature of the project, as neither classification nor diagnosis had strong roots or obvious usefulness in psychoanalysis. (Freud himself rejected the idea of a taxonomy of mental illness, in part because he felt that such a system could only offer a superficial understanding of mental distress, and that this would directly inhibit psychoanalysis’ ability to explain a patient comprehensively, and partly because psychoanalytic theory held, at its core, the belief that each individual subject was unique.)
Like the growth of classification in psychiatry, the relative emphasis on reliability over validity represented a conscious effort on the part of diagnostic psychiatry to display objectivity and empiricism, regardless of whether its diagnoses were accurate or beneficial: while the validity of the diagnoses might be hard to assess, their reliability could be easily measured (and they were, with encouraging results). True, just because the diagnoses of the DSM-III were reliable did not necessarily mean they were valid. But with proving the validity of its diagnoses once and for all an ambitious and monumentally difficult project, diagnostic psychiatry gained credibility for itself in the way that it could: it established that its diagnoses were reliable. Proving reliability did not prove validity, but in terms of establishing social legitimacy, it was nearly as useful. First, it gave the diagnoses of the diagnostic psychiatry the appearance of internal coherency. Second, though reliability does not entail validity, it is logical that validity entails reliability. Therefore, the DSM-III’s reliability seemed to suggest, at least superficially, that the diagnostic model met the prerequisites for validity in a way that psychoanalysis did not—this reliability in diagnosis, after all, is directly analogous to the concept of reproducibility that, as I argued in Chapter 2, was nearly impossible in dynamic psychiatry and increasingly becoming a fundamental criterion for the scientific objectivity of knowledge. In this way, the "reliability versus validity" debate demonstrates that the classificatory system propounded by the DSM-III was motivated more by social pressures than new discoveries in science, just as Kuhn described. 
Certain growing demands on psychiatric research also facilitated the shift from the dynamic to the diagnostic model. The rise of partial reimbursement for psychotherapy by medical insurance companies during the 1960s added further pressure for the development of a "categorical, rather than continuous, model of illness." Medical insurance plans paid, on average, one quarter of outpatient psychotherapy treatment; this proportion grew steadily throughout the 1970s, and the insurers grew to include Medicaid. Insurance companies required that treatment effectiveness have some way of being objectively assessed. Mayes and Horwitz write:
To objectively determine what the optimal treatment was for a given mental disorder, the critics called for new and stringent standards for demonstrating effectiveness, such as those used by the FDA to test the efficacy of drugs: quantitative and comparative studies based on matched samples of patients uniformly diagnosed, randomly assigned, and treated with standardized procedures, with outcomes judged not only by clinicians but by impartial observers not involved in the treatment.
The economic pressures of third-party payers to formalize the study of mental distress necessitated the creation of discrete mental illnesses with specific criteria delineated in a text agreed upon by consensus (i.e. the DSM or International Classification of Diseases [ICD], the international equivalent of the DSM).
It is inaccurate to characterize the shift to the diagnostic model as simply a matter of greed, because the market for psychotherapy, including psychoanalysis, was "lucrative and growing" at this time. But it would be equally inaccurate to ignore the financial incentives for shifting to the new diagnostic paradigm. Though the continuous nature of neuroses according to the dynamic model made it possible for nearly anyone to be a patient, the sheer number and variety of mental illnesses in the diagnostic model ensured there would be no dearth of patients in that model either. More importantly, though, while the practice of psychiatry may still have been lucrative under the dynamic model, research thrived best under the funding enabled by the classificatory diagnostic model. The founding of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) in 1946 was an important moment for psychiatry, as it became an important source of funding for mental health research in the United States. Initially focused on providing mental health services for communities across the nation, during the 1970s growing pressure from research psychiatrists (and, Horwitz suggests, an increasingly conservative Congress that opposed the "sweeping social agendas" of the NIMH’s community centers) led to a gradual shift in focus and funding to the research of the diagnostic entities of the DSM.
It was fundamentally this advantage that led to the success of the diagnostic model of psychiatry: the classification of mental distress enabled more organized and (seemingly, at least) more empirical research. This organization and empiricism seem to lend classificatory systems like taxonomy and nosology an implicit authority as a scientific endeavor; Hannah Decker, in her account of the DSM-III’s creation, states, "Classification is a necessary endeavor that human beings automatically carry out from early infancy on in order to comprehend the world they live in." Though whether a tendency toward classification is an essential characteristic of human nature is certainly up for debate, Decker does manage to convey the historical significance of classification as a scientific technique. It is classification’s implicit authority that gave the field of psychiatry, when it shifted to the diagnostic model, both an immediate boost in credibility and, more importantly, the means by which to create and organize new scientific knowledge: the creation of a system of distinct diseases allowed mental distress to be defined and rendered researchable by modern scientific methods. As Grob puts it, "In modern medicine, as in modern society, classification systems play a crucial role, for without such systems the collection and analysis of data are all but impossible."
And this, more than lucrative psychotherapy sessions, was what psychiatry needed; psychotherapy could, in theory, be practiced without a medical degree, but in order for psychiatry to maintain its legitimacy as a science and branch of medicine, it needed to find a way to produce knowledge. Thus, the shift to the diagnostic model seems to have been motivated by certain political pressures on psychiatry, from within and outside the discipline, to develop new ways of producing scientific knowledge. This, in short, is why psychiatry rejected psychoanalysis toward the end of the twentieth century: psychiatry found itself in the middle of a culture where psychiatry’s adherence to psychoanalysis jeopardized its existence.
I am a pre-medical student, and when my fellow pre-med students find out I am concentrating in English, the second thing they say is a question: why did I choose a degree so different from my career aspirations? I always tell them the same thing: Nothing happens in a vacuum. Science does not happen in a vacuum, and medicine certainly does not happen in a vacuum. I study society and culture not in spite of my medical ambitions, but because of them. This response is satisfactory to my fellow English majors, but my pre-med friends tend to get even more confused. I believe this is explained by the first thing they usually say when they find out I’m an English major: "Oh, I could never do that! I’m no good at that subjective stuff. I prefer science and math, where there are right and wrong answers."
To many, science and medicine are havens of objectivity and empiricism. For these people, the idea that society, politics, and culture could pervade the sanctity of these havens is entirely unheard of. Yet, this is undoubtedly the case—even if the objects of study themselves are indifferent to human society, the way that we study them is not. How do we define what counts as "science?" Does it matter? When is something empirical? Are non-empirical research methods to be discounted entirely? What are the societal implications of scientific discoveries? 
Perhaps the most undeniable example of the inevitable mingling of society and scientific research is the question of what gets researched. And this question is in part answered by the concept of "publish-or-perish:" that is, the institutional pressure on researchers and academics to produce knowledge in quantity even at the expense of quality—and, implicitly, to do so without questioning the definition of knowledge. In this thesis, I apply the concept of publish-or-perish not just to a single researcher or laboratory, but an entire discipline. Psychiatry’s abandonment of psychoanalysis, I have argued, was essentially due to psychoanalysis’ failure to produce knowledge, or at least knowledge considered "scientific." The diagnostic model performed extremely well in this regard, and it is mostly due to this that we now operate under the diagnostic model rather than the dynamic.
In his book Impure Science: AIDS, Activism, and the Politics of Knowledge, Steven Epstein analyzes the example of protesters from ACT UP (the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power) demonstrating outside Harvard Medical School on the first day of classes in fall 1988. The protesters passed out fliers for an "AIDS 101" course with an outline of topics like, "AZT—Why does it consume 90 percent of all research when it’s highly toxic and is not a cure?" and "Medical elitism—Is the pursuit of elegant science leading to the destruction of our community?" Epstein writes, "These protesters were not rejecting medical science. They were, however, denouncing some variety of scientific practice—‘elegant’ science, ‘what Harvard calls "good science"—as not conducive to medical progress and the health and welfare of their constituency." That is, the chemical properties and clinical efficacy of AZT might not be a social construction, but how the research gets carried out, and whether it gets carried out at all, certainly is determined by society. Thus, understanding the intersection of society and science is indispensible to anyone interested in practicing science and medicine. 
To understand better the social politics underlying our concepts of mental illness, biological illness, and medicine more generally is ultimately the purpose of this thesis. The diagnostic model is one way of organizing and understanding mental illness; it has its advantages and disadvantages, and may certainly be more useful to particular ends than other models, but ultimately, the discrete mental illnesses of the diagnostic model are still just tools that we use to understand the same phenomena (e.g. sadness, anxiety, etc.) that Freud was attempting to explain through psychoanalysis. Furthermore, as argued in Chapter 2, the concept of objectivity in science has changed over time; even if it is not entirely a social construction, the fact that it has changed even as recently as the late twentieth century implies that our current conception of objectivity—or, at least, our supposedly objective practices and techniques—are still flawed or incomplete. Thus, scientists and medical professionals who acknowledge this may gain perspective in their own research and practice. 
Regardless of whether the subject matter of science and medicine is indifferent to societal factors, science and medicine are both conducted in a social and political world. Paul Starr, in The Social Transformation of American Medicine, writes, "[Physicians] serve as intermediaries between science and private experience, interpreting personal troubles in the abstract language of scientific knowledge." If this is true, then science is only half of the equation; to carry out their job, physicians must familiarize themselves with both the social origins and social consequences of the scientific knowledge they utilize. In this way, my analysis of the death of psychoanalysis in American psychiatry is more or less my extremely long response to those pre-med friends who are confused about why I majored in English. To borrow a term from medicine, this thesis is an autopsy—a case study of an organism that is now dead, performed in order that we might better understand what is still alive.