Education, breeding, wealth, nationality, position—in the world of Shakespeare, these are all things that language can tell us about a person. Language’s ability to identify one’s class makes language an important factor in how people relate to each other, and Shakespeare understood this. Long-winded and vulgar Sir John Falstaff, for example, is clearly of an entirely different breed than the decisive and authoritative Henry Percy. Falstaff is farcical to the point of flippancy; Hotspur is too emotionally involved in his speech. Wavering—or perhaps just cleverly balanced—between the two ends of the spectrum is the eloquent Prince Hal. An analysis of how language is used differently among each of the characters in Shakespeare’s histories helps to frame them in terms of class and authority. 
Sir Falstaff, being a mere knight in a play driven by earls, princes and kings, is the lowliest of the main characters in 1 Henry IV. His preferred subject matter distinguishes him as lower in class than the nobles from the preceding scene. His speech is full of crass jokes about hanging and light-hearted self-deprecation. He jests about his own bad reputation, saying, "I would to God…I knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought." He is full of playful banter, and his teasing extends even to the prince himself. Falstaff does not censor himself in obedience to upper society’s standards of politeness. His tone is one of familiarity and frivolity; the gravity and aloofness present in the deeply political world of the nobles is not present in Falstaff.
It is easy to tell from Falstaff’s preferred subject matter that he is of relatively low class. Shakespeare, though, gives us a sign of Falstaff’s class even earlier—he does not speak in verse. The nobles in the first scene of the play speak in iambic pentameter, but Falstaff speaks in prose. The distinction is clear: poetry and eloquence are symbols of high birth, and prose is the language of the common people. 
This general dichotomy holds true for most of the play, but later attains special relevance as a tool to show Hal’s transformation. After Hal agrees to Poins’ prank and Poins leaves Hal alone, Hal drops prose and begins to soliloquize in verse. He says, "I know you all, and will awhile uphold / The unyoked humour of your idleness," but declares that he will not do this for long. He then likens his transformation to how the sun is all the more admired after hiding behind dark clouds, or how bright metal is more beautiful when juxtaposed with a dull background; in short, good things are best when given contrast. 
Hal’s soliloquy highlights the relationship between class perception and language through more than just the switch to verse. His claim that good things are better when given contrast is later reiterated by King Henry when warning his son not to cheapen himself by mingling with the common people. Unaware that his son is about to transform public opinion of himself, he tells Hal, "Had I so lavish of my presence been, / So common-hackneyed in the eyes of men / … / [Public] Opinion, that did help me to the crown, [would have remained loyal to Richard]." He contrasts himself with Richard, who he says blended with the lower class so much that they lost respect for him. "He was but as the cuckoo in June," he says; "Heard, not regarded." 
It is not that Henry does not mingle with the common people; in Richard II, we learn from Richard that Henry "[o]bserv’d his courtship to the common people, / [Diving] into their hearts with humble and familiar courtesy." He takes off his hat to an "oyster-wench" and greets horse groomers in the street. Similarly, his son claims to be able to "drink with any tinker in his own language," and he is on a first-name basis with the barmen at his favorite pub. Neither Henry nor Hal ignores the working class, because good relations with the common people are an important component of maintaining public favor and, consequently, power ). But unlike Richard, as Henry points out, they are careful not to spend too much time with the commoners.
This contrast with Richard highlights an important difference between the two: simply put, Henry knows when to shut up. Richard, the flamboyant poet-king, is incontinent with language. Like loquacious Falstaff, he is overflowing with speech. Henry and, increasingly, Hal, are more restrained in their language. These two categories immediately link language with class and therefore power. Falstaff is a lowly knight who never rises in rank, and Richard, similarly incontinent with language, ends up losing his crown. Henry and Hal, however, obtain and preserve power by knowing when to hold their tongue.
Falstaff is vulgar and overly familiar in his language, and Richard is overly poetic and impractical. But there is a third type of incontinence of language, demonstrated in Hotspur. On repeated occasions, Hotspur, true to his name, loses his temper with those he should respect. He answers the king’s request for Hotspur’s prisoners dismissively, and when the king leaves, is so enraged that he cannot be spoken too. "What, drunk with choler?" rebukes his father. He rants for several more minutes, preventing actual planning from being done, only stopping when his father says, "Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool / Art thou to break into this woman’s mood, / Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!."
In another example, Hotspur antagonizes Glendower throughout their meeting, earning him the reproach of both Mortimer and Worcester. Interesting, part of his jibing of Glendower focuses on mocking his Welsh accent., is another example of how language is tied up with class in that Welsh and Irish were viewed as second-class languages because they were spoken by second-class citizens). When Glendower defends his English by saying that he wrote lyrics for harp songs throughout his youth, Hotspur mocks his "mincing poetry." 
This scene shows his temper and inability to hold his tongue, but also important is Henry’s deriding of "mincing poetry:" he is opposed to language as a skill or craft. This aversion to artful language is demonstrated elsewhere in the play: he insults the king’s courier’s refined speech as using "holiday and lady terms," he repeatedly dismisses eloquent praise as glib flattery ), and he admits on several occasions that he does not have "the gift of tongue." Hal’s aversion to the art of language is in direct contrast with Hal, whose "princely tongue" extends so far as to lavish even Hotspur with praise.
This is the principle difference between Hal and Hotspur; Hal controls his language, but Hotspur, failing to do so, is controlled by it. Consequently, Hal finds himself increasing in reputation and power while Hotspur finds himself undone and finally killed at the hands of Hal. Hotspur’s inability to control his language is directly tied up with the lower class; after antagonizing Glendower, Worcester rebukes him, saying, "…[I]t doth present harsh rage, / Defect of manners, want of government, / Pride, haughtiness, opinion, and disdain, / The least of which haunting a nobleman / Loseth men’s hearts and leaves behind a stain / Upon the beauty of all parts besides, / Beguiling them of commendation." Hotspur "defect of manners" is characteristic of the lower class, and will not do if he is to become a true nobleman in the footsteps of his father. Similarly, Worcester accuses Hotspur of "want of government." Strictly speaking, this means that he has no self-control, but by coincidence, this phrase has another relevant meaning: through Hotspur’s incontinence and lack of self-control, Hotspur never realizes his full potential of power. Though of high birth, Hotspur does not enjoy the long life and power that his father has because he cannot control himself. He insists on attacking the king too soon, and costs himself not only the potential increase in power and influence that would come from defeating the king, but his own life. 
Hotspur cannot control his words or temper, and thereby sets actions in motion that not only cost him his chance at obtaining more power, but also his life. Similarly, idealistic Richard, full of language but short of prudence, eventually loses his crown. Henry and his son, on the other hand, rise in power due to their mastery of language. In this sense, Shakespeare shows the extent to which language is tied up with class and power: language does not just describe class and power; it changes who has them.