Foer’s Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is not a story about trauma, but a story about learning how to cope after trauma. Central to understanding the theme of coping in the novel is understanding the role that language plays in coping. As Kristiaan Versluys puts it, "In no other novel on 9/11 is the relation between trauma and language as explicitly articulated as in Jonathan Safran Foer’s Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close." Language as a uniquely human attribute allows us to use communication to work through trauma. Furthermore, language’s role in expression makes it an effective tool in moving on from personal tragedy and loss. The novel shows how language can be liberating after trauma, allowing us to change each other and ourselves, even if we cannot change the past.  
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close’s main narrator, Oskar Schell, is a quirky and precocious 9-year-old boy who is trying to move on after his father, Thomas, dies in the September 11th attacks on the World Trade Center. The novel is, in many ways, the story of how Oskar and his family use language to cope with the death of Thomas. One example of language’s ability to aid in coping can be seen in Oskar’s veneration of and fixation with the five phone messages that his father left while stuck in the tower. In an effort to protect his mother, he replaces the phone with an identical model and keeps the phone and its messages hidden away in his closet. The sound of his father’s voice is reassuring to Oskar and he often listens to his voice at times when he feels worried, like when he hears his therapist and his mother discussing hospitalizing him. Hearing his father’s voice makes Oskar feel closer to him and gives Oskar comfort. It is here that we see one of the most palpable functions of language in the novel—its ability to give comfort. The comfort given by the sound of Thomas’ voice transcends the comfort Oskar gets through reliving their memories together or merely thinking about how much Oskar misses him—indeed, current research supports the idea that the sound of a parent’s voice is inherently reassuring on a neurological level. Human abilities such as cognition or memory cannot match the instinctual consolation Oskar gets from hearing his father’s voice.
The ability of language to give comfort is further explored in the story. After the death of his father, Oskar finds a key in an envelope labeled "Black." Convinced that his father intended Oskar to find the key’s lock, he visits every Black in New York City, beginning from the top of the phonebook. In the course of his adventure, Oskar meets a woman named Abby Black. It is in her home that the use of elephants as a symbol of humanity reveals itself. This symbol, in conjunction with the five messages Oskar’s father leaves, proves important to understanding language’s role in comfort. Concerning elephants as a symbol for humans, it should be noted that the real-life similarities between elephants and humans are well-documented to begin with. There are also many instances in the novel itself to establish this symbolic relationship, such as when Oskar acknowledges that the elephant in the photograph in Abby’s apartment is crying, despite his claim that crying was a uniquely human tendency. The commonality that is the most relevant and prominent, however, is how elephant calls approach the level of language. Oskar mentions how they use deep calls to "set up meetings from very faraway locations, and they know where their friends and enemies are going to be." Oskar speaks to Abby about how an elephant researcher played recorded calls of an enemy that the elephants had only heard once before, and the elephant would become panicky. 
Language, like crying, seems to be no longer unique to humans. The humanization of elephants enables them, as a metaphor, to illustrate human qualities; in this case, the near-lingual capabilities of elephants illuminate a previously hidden aspect of Oskar’s father’s phone messages. "What’s really fascinating," Oskar says, "is that she’d play the call of a dead elephant to its family members." "And?" "They remembered." "What did they do?" "They approached the speaker." The recorded messages of the elephants’ dead family member recalls the messages left by Thomas Schell. The elephants, through some deep instinctual drive, approach the speaker, as though they are hearing their relative from beyond the grave. 
The elephants, when taken symbolically, show that the messages containing the voice of Thomas Schell have the potential to be a rallying point for the family he left behind. Furthermore, the last records of the living Thomas Schell have the potential to offer closure and resolution to the other Schells. Yet the benefits of the phone messages are denied the Schells, because, to some degree, Oskar secretly views the phone as an object of suffering: after the five messages have been left on the answering machine, Oskar takes great pains to hide the phone where his mother will never find it, with the reasoning that "protecting her is one of my most important raisons d’être." Oskar’s efforts to hide the messages leave the reader with something of a paradox concerning the messages. Oskar draws strength from his father’s voice, but he believes it will cause pain to his family. At first, this appears to weaken the argument that language and the voice help in coping because it opens the possibility that hearing Thomas’ voice will only hurt the other Schells. 
A solution to this problem can be found by examining the elephant metaphor again: "I wonder what they were feeling," Abby asks. "What do you mean?" "When they heard the calls of their dead, was it with love that they approached the jeep? Or fear? Or anger? … Did they charge? … Did they cry? " Oskar cannot give an answer. It is precisely this fear of the unknown that keeps Oskar from being able to share the phone messages with his mother and grandmother. He does not know how it will make them feel. He knows what he feels when he hears the messages: a mixture of nostalgia, sadness, pain, shame, and comfort. His emotions are complex, yet predictable. Perhaps because he feels he is now the "man of the house," Oskar feels obligated to hide the messages in order to protect his family. This action is noble, but misinformed. His belief that only pain will come of sharing the messages, and that all pain is bad, is youthful thinking. It is a sign that he is both maturing and learning to deal with his father’s death that he eventually says, "Feelings pain is still better than not feeling, isn’t it ?" Though Oskar feels that the messages might cause his mother and grandmother pain, he begins to understand that sometimes pain is a healthy part of coping, and can accompany comfort. Therefore, the array of feelings that comes with hearing Thomas’ voice is ultimately still indicative of language’s power to comfort.
Through the metaphor of the elephants and the example of the phone messages, the relationship between language and comfort is made clear. Oskar, however, harbors a secret about the messages—he heard his father leaving them and, out of fear, he never picked up the phone. Because of this, the messages, while a source of comfort, prevent Oskar from using them as a source of resolution. Instead, they draw out his pain by mixing it with shame.
The messages fail to provide closure in another way—Oskar, understandably, cannot get past why his father did not say that he loved him. He left five messages over the course of more than an hour, yet nowhere does Thomas Schell say he loved his son. The reader cannot help but sympathize with Oskar—why would someone who was otherwise a wonderful father not tell his son that he loved him? Because no resolution was made, Oskar is unable to move past this. This, the simple idea of telling someone "I love you" because of the possibility of never seeing him or her again, is an important theme in the story because it deals with language’s ability to provide resolution.
It is suggested that Oskar wanted to say "I love you" to his father the night before he died. After Thomas finishes a bedtime story and father and son are lying side by side, Oskar says, "Dad?" His father says "Yeah, buddy?" "Nothing." The most obvious answer is that he was going to say, "I love you," but did not.  This idea is reinforced in a parallel conversation seen much earlier in the novel. Oskar describes the ride to his father’s funeral and the admiration and devotion he feels toward his mother. Again: "Mom?" "Yes?" "Nothing." Oskar, in proximity to things that remind him that life is not permanent, feels the desire to tell his mother that he loves her, only to shy away. 
The theme of saying "I love you" as a form of resolution is largely based in the last of the grandmother’s letters to Oskar. Grandma, who was raised is Germany, describes the night she shared with her sister Anna before the Dresden Firebombing:
It was late, and we were tired. We assumed there would be other nights. Anna’s breathing started to slow, but I still wanted to talk. She rolled onto her side. I said, I want to tell you something. She said, You can tell me tomorrow. I had never told her how much I loved her. [...]. There was never a right time to say it. It was always unnecessary. 
The tragedy in this is that Anna died in the bombings. Grandma assumed that there would be other opportunities to tell Anna that she loved her. Regrettably, not telling Anna that she loved her was something she would have to live with for the rest of her life, and Grandma is left without closure on the situation. 
Versluys writes, "The characters want to reach out to one another; the novel consists of their attempts to establish contact." This perfectly describes Oskar and his grandmother; they want to express their love for their family, but are afraid to. The vulnerability that comes with honest self-expression makes this difficult. In one way, the more honest it is, the harder it is—as Oskar’s grandmother says, "How can you say I love you to someone you love?." 
The grandmother has learned from her traumatic experience, however. She understands that sometimes language is necessary to fully express something, and that we should use it before it is too late. Describing her thoughts on the night before Anna died, she says, "There was never a right time to say it. It was always unnecessary." Unfortunately, it takes the loss of her sister for her to realize that language is a gift, and that is should be used frequently—she concludes her final letter to Oskar: "Here is the point of everything I have been trying to tell you, Oskar. It’s always necessary. I love you, Grandma." 
It also takes a tragedy for Oskar’s mother to learn this lesson. Shortly after the planes hit, Oscar’s mother instructs Grandma, who lives across the street, to watch him until she can get home. Grandma recounts, "She said, I love you. She had been married to your father for twelve years. I had known her for fifteen years. It was the first time she told me she loved me. That was when I knew that she knew [that Thomas would die]." Grandma, who has experienced firsthand the importance of saying "I love you," knows exactly how to interpret it when Oskar’s mom says it to her for the first time: she knows Oskar’s mom knows that Thomas will not make it out alive. She has undergone the same lesson Grandma did in Dresden. Sadly, it takes the loss of Anna and Thomas for the two women to learn the shortness of life and the importance of sharing one’s feelings while it is still possible.
When it comes to coping with trauma, Thomas Schell’s messages and Grandma’s exhortation to say "I love you" show that language helps by facilitating comfort and resolution, respectively. One of the most obvious uses of language in coping, though, is its role in the expression of emotions. After the death of Thomas, Oskar’s mother pays for therapy sessions for Oskar. The sessions are disastrous—Oskar clearly does not see the point in therapy, nor does he want to be there. Furthermore, his therapist, Dr. Fein, seems to be mismanaging the sessions; he upsets Oskar by asking him, in order to investigate whether his moodiness is based in the onset of puberty, if Oskar has noticed the growth of hair on his scrotum. When Oskar says that he feels self-conscious, Dr. Fein apologizes and explains that he thought that part of what Oskar was experiencing might be due to the hormonal changes of puberty. Oskar responds, "It isn’t. It’s because my dad died the most horrible death that anyone can ever invent." 
While the therapy itself is decidedly not helping Oskar, Dr. Fein’s good intentions are not wholly misguided: Oskar clearly needs to talk about his feelings. At the end of their session, Dr. Fein and Oskar work out some goals for Oskar to reach, among them trying to be nicer to his mother and "to not ruin things by getting so emotional." When Dr. Fein asks Oskar how he is going to accomplish these goals, Oskar says, "I’m gonna bury my feelings deep inside me… no matter how much I feel, I’m not going to let it out. If I have to cry, I’m gonna cry on the inside. If I have to bleed, I’ll bruise." Oskar believes that self-expression will only make the lives of those who love him more difficult. He consciously makes an effort to internalize his pain, metaphorically "bruising" instead of bleeding. In fact, the bruising is more than metaphorical: Oskar mentions how his mother must have seen all of his bruises when she helped him into his "PJ’s" after he fell asleep on the floor one night—he says there were forty-one. This disturbing confession shows both the danger of not expressing emotions, and the innate desire to do so: Oskar, despite his commitment towards internalizing his feelings, says that he secretly wished that his mother would ask how he got them.
Oskar is missing the point of therapy. He is under the impression that self-expression is selfish or wrong. Unfortunately, Dr. Fein does little to correct Oskar’s misconceptions. When Oskar explains how he is going to bury his feelings, Dr. Fein says only, "But if you’re burying your feelings deep inside, you won’t really be you, will you?." When Oskar, obviously unconvinced, responds, "So?," Dr. Fein moves onto another topic entirely. In this new topic, Oskar further shows that his disdain for self-expression has not changed—when Dr. Fein asks Oskar if he thinks any good can come from his father’s death, Oskar reports, "I kicked over my chair, threw his papers across the floor, and hollered, ‘No! Of course, not you fucking asshole!’ That was what I wanted to do. Instead I just shrugged my shoulders." Oskar is infuriated that Dr. Fein thinks any good can come from his father’s death, but rather than expressing his feeling even to his own therapist, he remains silent.
This is not the only time Oskar remains silent rather than expressing his feelings. In his school’s watered-down rendition of Hamlet, Oskar frustration grows to a climax. The school bully, Jimmy Snyder, is playing Hamlet. Oskar, who missed the auditions, has a curious part: he plays Yorick’s skull as a sort of living prop. In the last performance, Oskar describes how he, as Yorick, reaches out and grabs Jimmy’s face, rather than the other way around. For this section, the novel is formatted like a play, and Oskar begins a lengthy monologue that combines  the original, unadulterated, Shakespeare with declarations of what Oskar really thinks of Jimmy Snyder. Jimmy, meanwhile, grows from confused to angry. The surreal scene ends with Oskar taking off the papier-mâché skull he wears and using it to brutally smash Jimmy Snyder’s head repeatedly. Finally, Oskar relates to the reader, "It would have been great," indicating that it all only happened in Oskar’s head.
This scene again demonstrates Oskar’s tendency to internalize his feelings. Rather than speak the truth about Jimmy Snyder’s bullying, Oskar keeps it to himself to comply with society’s expectations. Furthermore, the pent-up frustration he felt over the past twelve weeks led Oskar to imagine the violent outburst. Had he not been in the habit of censoring himself to prevent expression of emotions, Oskar might never have felt the urge to bash Jimmy’s head in with the skull. Oskar, describing Jimmy’s beating, says that his teeth go down his throat and there is blood everywhere —Oskar is no longer just a frustrated child; he is a potential threat to those around him. His internalization of emotions, far from helping those around him, only makes Oskar frustrated and even dangerous.
This tendency to internalize feelings is not restricted to children. Oskar’s grandfather, Thomas Schell Sr., was deeply in love with Anna when they were both youth in Dresden. When she died in the bombings, Thomas was unable to move on. He moved to America and began a relationship with Anna’s sister, Oskar’s grandmother, but soon found that his powers of language were diminishing. He explains in a letter to his then-unborn son how he first lost the ability to say "Anna," then preceded to lose his vocabulary one word at a time, until finally, he was mute. He becomes restricted to purely written communication, tattooing "YES" and "NO" on his hands and carrying around a notebook in which to write messages. 
Thomas Sr.’s silence represents his inability to speak about the trauma. For Thomas Sr., speaking about the trauma means accepting it and comprehending it, which is something that he is determined to avoid, if only unconsciously. His complete muteness also represents the emptiness that has conquered him—true to his surname, he has become the shell of the man he was. His life is defined by nothingness, and his loss of language symbolizes this. As Samuel Beckett said, "Every word is like an unnecessary stain on silence and nothingness" —and silence and nothingness are exactly what Thomas Sr. wants. His desire to replace language, love, and life with nothingness is an attempt to avoid dealing with the death of Anna. This is further established when he tries to create "Nothing" spaces in his and Grandma’s apartment. These spaces are areas where one can "cease to exist," becoming nothing temporarily.
Clearly, though, embracing silence and nothingness is not a healthy way for Thomas Sr. to deal with trauma. It prevents him from developing an actual relationship with Grandma, to the point where they even make love in only the Nothing spaces. Versluys writes, "[H]usband and wife cooperate in a conspiracy of silence" —hardly the mark of a healthy relationship. Furthermore, Thomas Sr. is crippled with low self-esteem  and is constantly apologizing, which can be seen as characteristic of survivor guilt. He attempts to deal with the trauma through silence and nothingness rather than expression of emotion. Thomas Sr. has yet to learn what his grandson has learned: feeling pain is still better than not feeling. 
In Thomas Sr.’s final letter, three pages consist of nothing but numbers corresponding to words spelled out on a telephone keypad. From this section to the end of this letter, the words begin to run closer and closer together until, finally, the last page written by Thomas Schell is nothing more than a black rectangle. Versluys writes, 
This dark page is the completion of Grandpa’s blank voice: muteness and semiotic overload share the condition of incomprehensibility, and for Grandpa, losing his words has the same effect as this overabundance of words. Both result in the erasure of communicability. The darkened page is a visible illustration of the writing of disaster as an impossibility. 
Thomas Schell’s last method of communication finally becomes incapable of expressing anything at all. Language has deserted him; the letters, which he does not send anyway, can no longer even record his thoughts. Unable to express himself and therefore unable to move on, he returns to Dresden, the home of his past.
The three narrators of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close each deal with personal tragedies with varying degrees of success, and the degree of success is largely based in how they use or misuse language. Understanding the importance of language in recovery from such tragedies leads to a greater understanding of the characters themselves, enabling a fuller reading of the novel. Most importantly, however, it allows the lessons learned by the Schells through trauma to be used by the reader without paying the same price. Language is a gift unique to humans, and can and should be used for expressing thoughts and emotion. In this sense, the novel itself is cathartic, expressing a post-9/11 America’s fear and grief. Versluys writes, "The whole task of Foer’s novel is to describe a normalcy that has been brutally interrupted." Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close shows that language is the primary tool in the reconstruction of that normalcy. 