In "Making Your Own Days," Kenneth Koch argues for the existence of language of poetry separate from the language used everyday. It’s a large claim, but there’s no shortage of evidence. "Ode to a Nightingale" by John Keats, for example, illustrates several differences between everyday language and poetry. Besides being a good example of poetry, it illuminates the nature of poetry by offering insight on the creative drive itself. An examination of the poem’s language, poetic inclinations, and description of creativity show much about how poetry functions as a separate language than the speech we use everyday.
If we wish to learn more about poetry through "Ode to a Nightingale," the place to begin is in what arguably makes it poetry in the first place—its music. The poem comprises eight stanzas, each with ten lines. The rhyme scheme is used in Keats’ other Odes. It begins with a quatrain in the ABAB pattern, and, like a Petrarchan sonnet, ends with a sestet in the CDECDE pattern. Keats’ nimble rhyming works well in this form, infusing the poem with music. The music, however, does not come from predictability—beginning with a straightforward quatrain sets a pattern for the reader that Keats does not follow. By the third line of the sestet, the reader is aware that the rhyme scheme established at the beginning of the stanza does not run throughout. Even once the reader becomes aware of the ABAB CDECDE pattern, this shift in rhyme still comes as a surprise. Nevertheless, the rhymes continue, just in a more unpredictable fashion; and the poem is better for it: the music is kept fresh. Indeed, this is somewhat like the song of the nightingale itself: familiar, yet hard to predict until one grows accustomed to the song. And because the rhymes are less predictable, the form feels less contrived. Like folk music that relies on heavy and complex rhythms, the reader is drawn to the subtle but persistent pace of the poem.
The rhythm too is heavy and complex. Best classified as iambic pentameter, the poem contains so many variations and substitutions on this meter that labeling it as such borders on the deceptive. And it is good that Keats does not follow the meter strictly: though parts of "Ode to a Nightingale" certainly show that Keats is quite adept at writing in iambic pentameter, had he followed that pattern for all eighty lines, the poem would likely grow dull. Even Shakespeare, master of iambic pentameter, was unafraid to make variations on that meter for poetry’s sake (especially in his later plays, when presumably he was more experienced and more confident in his stylistic choices). But even if Keats would have made a great poem by strictly following iambic pentameter, there can be little doubt that the poem’s current form would be superior. Keats eschews constancy for variety, and manages to create a flow that sounds completely natural, despite straying from the established rhythm. Keats masterfully employs spondees to accentuate certain lines and phrases, such as his use of five contiguous spondees in line 25 to describe the pitiable state of the human condition:
˘/     ˘ /        ˘     /        /        /         /         /
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs,
The line begins iambically, but, jumping from the stressed syllable at the end of the third foot, begins two feet consisting entirely of stressed syllables. The rhythm in this particular line creates a surge of energy at the end: da DUM, da DUM, da DUM DUM DUM DUM DUM. In addition to being a strongly musical line, the use of spondees both draws attention and lends emotional power to the sadness of the scene: "Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs" is a much more striking line than something like, "Where palsy shakes the hair of the old men," despite the latter following the poem’s basic meter. 
The rhythm, like rhythm in speech, isn’t always predictable, and although Keats’ lines certainly have a very natural feel to them, such a rhythm wouldn’t occur in everyday speech. The cadences are varied and difficult to predict, but exhibit forethought, expertise, and control—not unlike the flight of a bird, in fact. Such rhythms, specific to poetry, strengthen Koch’s analogy of a separate "poetry language."
The last musical quality employed by Keats that I will focus on is his use of consonance. Keats’ music shines through in lines like "Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget" and phrases like "self-same song." Assonance is used too, as evident in lines like "That I might drink, and leave the world unseen." The assonance and consonance contribute immeasurably to the overall music of the poem. They are used for more than just their musical qualities, though. When a phrase like "beaded bubbles winking at the brim" is paired with an image as strong as "purple-stained mouth," the mouth almost salivates at the thought of a "draught of vintage… full of the warm South". The repetition of b loosens up the mouth in a way that heightens the sensory qualities of taste. Such an effect is subtle, and almost certainly not conscious on Keats’ part, but they nevertheless play a large role in making the poem memorable. 
The music of a poem is just one element in what separates the language of poetry from everyday speech, and another of these elements are the descriptive inclinations specific to poetry. One such inclination is exhibited even before the poem begins: the poem is addressed to a nightingale. This is an example of apostrophe, as Keats is addressing something that does not understand him and is not able to reply. This is itself a poetic move; in everyday speech, we simply do not address animals. But, as Koch argues, the language of poetry, being separate from our everyday language, and is not used for the same purposes. Keats’ use of apostrophe sheds light on the nature of creative writing: it is used for more than just conveying information; far from being relegated to mere function, it is used to beautifully express emotions and thoughts that elude conventional language. Keats knows that the nightingale cannot understand him, but directly addressing the nightingale creates a special linkage between it and Keats. 
This is not the only poetic inclination in the poem: the nightingale is given human characterization. Of course, this is partially established by Keats’ directly addressing it, but the bird is also given personality and character. For example, he is described as singing because he is "too happy in [his] happiness[.]" Strictly speaking, that is simply factually incorrect: the nightingale is singing to attract a mate, or signify his location, or establish his territory. But Keats sees something more than a biological function inherent in many birds; he sees a carefree creature that is so filled with happiness that it cannot help but sing. That is, in the language of poetry, a birdsong can be more than a mating call; it can be an actual piece of music created out of joy.
The other thing characterized as human is, oddly enough, Death. In the sixth stanza, the juxtaposition of an anthropomorphized nightingale and personified death lead to an unusual stanza indeed:
Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
  I have been half in love with easeful Death,
Call’d him soft names in many a mused rhyme,
  To take into the air my quiet breath;
Now more than ever seems it rich to die,
  To cease upon the midnight with no pain,
    While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad
          In such an ecstasy! 
  Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain—
    To thy high requiem become a sod.

In the language we use everyday, this sentiment might be summarized as "Suicide seems like a good option when my own emotions are contrasted to how that bird sounds." But this would, of course, be terrible poetry; in this case, suicide and the nightingale are impersonal, distant things that do not resonate with the reader. But when Keats compares his contemplation of suicide with being "half in love with easeful Death," the personification of death is both striking and beautiful, even if, for a reader in the 21st century, it is somewhat clichéd. And when it is contrasted with the nightingale "pouring forth [his] soul abroad/ In such ecstasy!" the two emotions stand out even more. In this sense, the two "lies," as Koch calls them, work together to bring out truths that might not be fully or memorably conveyed if they were expressed literally.
Personification and apostrophe are just two kinds of poetic inclination. There is another element to what makes poetry separate from regular speech, and this is what Pound calls phanopoeia, or the imagery component of poetry. Phrases like "purple-stained mouth" leave a powerful impression in the reader’s mind, as do phrases like "embalmed darkness." The imagery, though, is just one part of the strong sensory impressions of the poem. A sensory experience like "The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves" is hard to forget—something about the crawling sensation the reader feels at the mention of flies works in tandem with the auditory effects (not to mention onomatopoeia) conjured by a word like "murmurous" to make such a line leave a strong impression in the readers mind. The poem does not just convey information; it conjures the taste of cool wine, or the sound of flies on a dark summer night. These impressions involve more than just imagery, and are part of what makes "Ode to a Nightingale" a good poem to analyze to learn more about the poetry language—some poems have strong imagery, but Keats brings in all the senses. This separates it from everyday language to an even further degree than if it were just strong in visual imagery. 
The poem is a good example of the poetry language for more than just its poetic qualities, though. In a sense, the poem itself is about the sort of truth that can only be expressed—or, at least, is best expressed—in the poetry language. Keats had a theory of writing that he called Negative Capability. In a letter to his brother, he described it thusly: "I mean Negative Capability, that is when man is capable of being in uncertainties, Mysteries, doubts without any irritable reaching after fact & reason…" From the beginning, the poem explores this theme of uncertainty, of experience rather than conclusions. "[A] drowsy numbness pains / My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk, / Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains / One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk[.]" This numbing of the senses is a good description of Negative Capability: Keats’ inhibitions and sense of reality are being diminished, as if he drank a poison or had just ingested opium. Keats continues on this theme by writing an entire stanza in praise of the draught that will let him "leave the world unseen, / And with [the nightingale] fade into the forest dim." The metaphor of poison or the numbing effects of wine or opium might be disconcerting to the reader, but the idea it conveys is undeniably clear. The sort of open-mindedness or freedom from reason that Keats is denoting is best described in terms of mind-altering drugs; clearly, this is not the sort of open-mindedness one speaks of in everyday language.
The poem is a meditation on death, so it is fitting that Keats chooses these three metaphors to begin the poem: the numbing quality of the alcohol and opium, and of course, the effects of the hemlock, are all, in a way, a kind of death. But even as Keats praises the draught that would help him experience this kind of death by leaving the world behind, he praises the nightingale’s immortality: "Though wast not born for death, immortal Bird!" While Keats may enjoy the substances that help him to release his need to make sense of the world—and therefore to release his feelings of pain and uncertainty—he does not particularly enjoy the implications of death in them, as indicated when, at the beginning of the fourth stanza, he articulates his desire to join the nightingale, a symbol of immortality ("immortal Bird"). 
This is not to say that Keats is afraid of death—as he says in the sixth stanza, "I have been half in love with easeful Death." He simply has a complex relationship with it. He enjoys death in the sense that he enjoys the death of reason that comes with the opium, hemlock, and wine. In many senses, this is what suicide is: a ceasing of the lifelong attempt to make sense of the world. This is the sort of death that Keats longs for, and elsewhere in the poem, this death of reason is correlated with life. Again, the fourth stanza elucidates this point if we take the nightingale as a symbol of immortality. He writes, "Away! away! for I will fly to thee, / Not charioted by Bacchus an his pards, / But on the viewless wings of Poesy, / Though the dull brain perplexes and retards[.]" The life that Keats seeks is to join the nightingale, which sings perfectly and clearly without thinking about it. But he is impeded by his "dull brain [which] perplexes and retards." It is this need to make sense of things that prevents him from joining the nightingale. It is here that Negative Capability is important: Keats longs to join the nightingale in being free of the constraints imposed by reason, with experience replacing reason as the highest standard (this sentiment is echoed in another of Keats’ odes, "Ode to a Grecian Urn," when he famously concludes, "Beauty is truth, truth beauty.")
"Ode to a Nightingale" is largely about Keats’ desire to escape the reason that pains him. In short, he desires Negative Capability, which is one of the elements present in poetry that is not typically present in everyday language. In this sense, the poem not only shows by example that which separates the poetry language from everyday language; it directly addresses the differences between the two. Confirming this is that Keats says he will fly to the bird "[n]ot charioted by Bacchus and his pards, / But on the viewless wings of Poesy[.]" It is the immortal nightingale he seeks to join, and it is not the intoxication of Bacchus that will get him there, but poetry.