The language of Othello at times reads like a zoo, complete with horses, goats, monkeys, wolves, donkeys, falcons, and toads. On top of contributing greatly to the imagery of the play, the constant evocations of animals play a functional role in that they almost always act as a lens: whether being used to make feelings clear, make a situation seem worse than it is, or to describe a certain character, animal language is usually invoked with the intent of changing how one character views something. By stirring emotions and manipulating opinions, animal comparisons motivate characters by changing how they view themselves and one another.
Iago is the most prominent user of animal language in Othello. He boasts the first use of animal language in the play, deriding obsequious servants as asses who work only for food. The ass comparison becomes a favorite of Iago’s. He says Othello "will as tenderly be led by th’ nose as / As asses are." Rather than describe Othello as being trusting, simple, and naïve, Iago compares him to a donkey. This simple simile quickly and accurately shows the audience how Iago views Othello, and more efficiently than merely stating that Othello is gullible or stupid. 
Iago describes Othello as an ass twice; the second time he claims he will "make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me / For making him egregiously an ass." To make a fool of Othello is to make an ass of him; in being made a dumb and ignorant farm animal, Othello is being demoted from a human to an animal. 
Iago, the great manipulator, also frequently uses animal imagery to add a powerful emotional dimension to how characters perceive sex. For example, Othello, strangling Iago and demanding "ocular proof" of Desdemona’s infidelity, is again convinced that she is sleeping with Cassio when Iago describes their affair in animal terms. Iago frames the affair in terms of pure animalistic passion, describing Desdemona and Cassio as "prime as goats, as hot as monkeys, as salt as wolves in heat." This succeeds in infuriating Othello and assuaging his doubts of Iago’s honesty. The image of the two lovers being "as hot as monkeys" is strong enough to function as a sort of ocular proof; while a mere description is certainly not evidence, it is enough to cause Othello’s emotions to overcome his reason. 
Iago is successful: the animal language of Iago has deeply affected Othello. Iago’s description of the animal sexuality of Cassio and Desdemona remains on Othello’s mind even into the next act: he exclaims, "Goats and monkeys!" to himself after arguing with Desdemona. Iago knows that a portrayal of sex as raw and animalistic is precisely what will aggravate Othello to violence.
Othello is not the only victim of this tactic: Iago first uses it to enrage Brabantio about Othello and Desdemona, yelling outside Brabantio’s window, "Even now, now, very now, an old black ram / Is tupping your white ewe." Iago, knowing that Brabantio is a father bent on controlling his daughter’s sexuality, picks the image of two sheep having sex to infuriate him. He then says to Brabantio, "[y]ou’ll have you daughter cover’d with a Barbary horse, you’ll have your nephews neigh to you; you’ll have coursers for cousins, and gennets for germans." He then says that Desdemona and Othello are "making the beast with two backs." Iago’s language is geared to shock, and it works: Brabantio enters the street in a rage still in his nightgown, and dispatches his servants to search the city for Othello. 
On top of showing how sexual animal imagery is used to arouse anger and jealousy, Iago’s language displays the racism inherent in his view of Othello. His sheep comparison, for example, involves "a white ewe" and "an old black ram" rather than just two sheep; the emphasis is being placed on the fact that the lovers are of different races. Even using an animal metaphor in the first place is an instance of racism. In Iago’s metaphor of Othello as a Barbary horse, only Othello is an animal. It is racist not only because only Othello is the animal, but because, by keeping Desdemona as a human, interracial intercourse is likened to bestiality.
The nature of the racism is more than just equating Moors to animals; the animal imagery plays on the Elizabethan stereotype of the hypersexual black man—the "lascivious Moor," as Iago calls him. The animal language in the play frequently associates animals with unrestrained lust. We’ve seen this in Iago’s goading of Brabantio as well his "hot as monkeys" speech to Othello. He is not the only character to equate the animal kingdom with uninhibited sexuality. Cassio, for example, calls Bianca a polecat, thought to be a lascivious creature. Othello himself associates animals with sexuality, describing his heart as a "cestern for foul toads to knot and gender in"  and saying that Desdemona is as faithful "as summer flies are in the shambles, / That quicken even with blowing." The link between animals and unrepressed sexuality is made clear. Making Othello an animal, therefore, is to make him lascivious and lewd.
It is worth noting that Iago himself is also, to a degree, the subject of animal language. After he has been exposed at the end of the play, Lodovico calls him a "Spartan dog." This statement echoes both Othello’s threat that he "hadst been better have been born a dog" than to face Othello’s wrath, and lines delivered by Roderigo earlier in the play. He says, "I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but one that fills up the cry." It seems that Roderigo is the latter, but Iago is the former. Through various characters, Shakespeare depicts Iago as having the worst qualities of dogs.
While Iago is the most notable user of animal language in Othello, we hear animal language from Othello as well. Unlike Iago, who uses animal imagery to influence others, Othello typically uses animal imagery to more clearly express his own feelings. For example, he says that rather than share a portion of what he loves, he would "rather be a toad and live upon the vapor of a dungeon." Here, his preference for the lowly life of a toad is cited to show just how strongly Othello hates the idea of infidelity. He uses the toad imagery again, saying to Desdemona that her infidelity has made his heart become "a cestern for foul toads to knot and gender in." When livid about Cassio and swearing his revenge, Othello says that his bosom is "full of aspics’ tongues." 
While Othello’s use of animal language is often just as frightful and grotesque as Iago’s, the ends to which both characters use it show them to be quite different. Iago constantly compares others to animals, and he does this to manipulate other characters or to express his distaste of them. Othello, on the other hand, constantly invokes animal metaphors to express his own feelings more clearly. Both characters use animal language as a lens to change the way one character views another, but their motives and methods are completely different.
The few times that Othello does use animal imagery about others are usually kind and gentle. Even as he bemoans the fact that wives are so hard to control, he refers to them as "delicate creatures." And he says of Desdemona, "If I do prove her haggard, / Though that her jesses were my dear heart-strings, / I’ld whistle her off, and let her down the wind / To prey at fortune." Desdemona is no toad or dog; she is a wild falcon. That Othello chooses for his metaphor an animal of grace and beauty, even under the impression that Desdemona is sleeping with his lieutenant, shows his essential good nature.
Both Iago and Othello use animal language to change how a character is viewed; Iago uses animal imagery to great effect in changing how characters view one another, and Othello uses it with equal skill in expressing his own feelings to himself and others, or occasionally in praise of others. How a character chooses to utilize animal language helps to characterize them; one uses it to denigrate and manipulate, while the other uses it for self-expression and praise. In an example of Shakespeare’s masterful portrayal of his characters, Iago and Othello, given the same type of metaphor, use it to entirely different ends. This shows fundamental differences in their personality. In this way, when a character uses animal language to describe another character, he is not just describing that person; he is unwittingly describing himself. 