Determining the author’s intent is a difficult, even impossible task. However, much can be learned about the purpose of Jane Smiley’s revisiting of King Lear by examining the change in the moral structures of the story. Lear, a good man who suffers from an error in judgment but is ultimately redeemed, becomes Larry, an incestuous brute who is bent on controlling his daughters. Regan, a jealous and greedy manipulator, becomes Rose, an embittered housewife who needs her anger as a crutch. Cordelia, a virginal maiden oppressed for her honesty, becomes Caroline, an ungrateful lawyer who is only able to have a functional relationship with her father because of the sacrifices her sisters made to protect her from him. The complexity of these characters’ personalities is explicated by Ginny, Smiley’s incarnation of Goneril and the narrator of A Thousand Acres. Each character, far from being seen as either good or evil, is seen largely as a product of his or her past. The individual histories of Ginny and Rose in particular make it difficult to classify them morally.
The central plot of King Lear is altered in the novel; Larry still splits his property between two of his daughters and alienates the third, but the story is less about Larry’s reconciliation with Caroline than it is about Rose and Ginny’s struggle to deal with their father. Rather than Goneril and Regan, who have no characterization or motivation other than jealousy and greed, the "bad" actions of Rose and Ginny are based in deeper psychological motivations. Rose, for example, does not want the land out of greed, but out of hatred for her father: "Sometimes I hate him. Sometimes waves of hatred just roll through me, and I want him to die, and go to hell and stay there forever, just roasting!." This anger is hardly more appealing than Regan’s greed, but the origin of this anger makes her hatred understandable: Larry was sexually and physically abusive to both Rose and Ginny during their teenage years. In light of this fact, it is hard to continue to view anger as an essential part of Rose, but rather as something that grew in her over time.
Knowing Rose’s story means knowing that she needs her anger as a crutch. After she explains how she was sexually abused to Ginny, who is still repressing her memories of the abuse, she says, "Don’t make me feel sorry for myself. That’s the hardest. The more pissed off I am, the better I feel." While dying of breast cancer in the hospital, she again says to Ginny, "We’re going to be angry until we die. It’s the only hope." Her anger gives her the strength to manage a normal life after the horrible abuse she suffered, but all the community sees is a bitter, selfish, shrew. Rose is aware of this, but boldly condemns the community’s methods of moral categorization: "He did beat us and he did fuck us…. And the thing is, he’s respected… Either they don’t know the real him and we do, or else they do know the real him and the fact that he beat us and fucked us doesn’t matter. Either they themselves are evil, or they’re stupid." This may hit close to home with readers—the community that Rose is attacking parallels the role of the audience in a performance of King Lear. It knows nothing of the daughters’ histories or motivations, and makes judgments based on actions. Either the audience does not realize that the daughters are more complex than just good or evil, or it is evil itself. In the play, of course, Goneril and Regan do seem to be purely wicked, but Smiley reminds us that this good/evil dichotomy does not apply to real humans.
Ginny’s story also shows why moral categories like "good" and "bad" are insufficient; her rebellion against her father has much to do with her history. Her father wields control over her during her childhood and adolescence through years of intense sexual and physical abuse, and even in adulthood, Ginny says, she struggles against the "weight of his ‘I’." She says, "When my father asserted his point of view, mine vanished." Compromising justice for peace, she is the first to apologize in any arguments. When Larry loses sway over his daughters, however, Ginny feels pleasure in gaining control over him, reversing the situation that she endured her entire life. After she threatens to take away his car keys if he continues to drive drunk, she says, "It was exhilarating, talking to my father as if he were my child." Goneril and Regan enjoy having power over their father for its own sake, but in the case of Ginny, it comes from finally being able to speak her mind: "This laying down the law was a marvelous way of talking." Her enjoyment of finally being the one in charge did not come from selfishness or love of power; it came as a direct result of being denied self-sufficiency her entire life, and finally being able to reverse the situation. Understanding how Ginny’s past contributes to this authority and independence makes it morally ambiguous. Similarly, her gradual separation from her husband Ty, who she feels encouraged her fear of self-assertion , is based in her need for autonomy. 
The community disapproved of Ginny exerting authority over her own father and abandoning her husband, but it was an inevitable consequence of how she grew up. As circumstances grew worse, she could continue to be diffident and apologetic, or she could rebel. Things like her affair with Jess Clark or Rose’s constant prodding to revolt polarized her, serving as a catalyst to push her to choose rebellion. The community sees this process of individuation as something negative, but Ginny herself prefers who she has become to who she was; what Ty calls "pretty, funny, and [looking] at the good side of things," Ginny calls being a "ninny." She is not fundamentally good or bad, and this does not change; the only essential part of her is "Ginny," and any change she experiences is to this end. In understanding Ginny’s history, the reader sees her transformation not as a degradation in principles, but as a movement towards personal authenticity.
Having seen the events of the novel unfold from Rose and Ginny’s point of view, the reader easily identifies the oversimplification in the good/evil mindset that their sister Caroline embodies. Separation from her sisters for so long has prevented Caroline from understanding the complex motivations behind their actions.  "I think things generally are what they seem to be!"  she says towards the end of the novel. "I think that people are basically good!…I realize that some people are just evil." In these statements, Caroline perfectly summarizes that which the novel has been discrediting the entire time, the idea that people are easily classified into "good" or "bad." Such categories are present in King Lear—the audience is obliged to simply accept that King Lear’s Goneril and Regan are evil and without redeeming qualities, while Cordelia is as pure as snow. After seeing the entire story from Rose and Ginny’s position, however, this worldview cannot appear as anything but ignorant and naïve. 