The need to make sense of life and death is a prominent theme of A Happy Death/ As Fun Home is largely a memoir about Alison Bechdel’s struggle to make sense of her father’s death, the two narratives can be rightly expected to have some thematic overlap. The references to Camus and existentialism, then, are not out of place, as existentialism approaches a topic philosophically that Bechdel approaches psychologically and through literature. Bechdel’s interpolation of existentialist texts add a philosophical dimension to Alison’s attempt to make sense of her father’s death, and her and her father’s experience with death is essentially the philosophical one predicted by absurdist existentialism.
Before Alison Bechdel’s experience with death can be labeled as "absurd" or "existential," however, existentialism in the absurdist vein must be defined. Existentialism, and Camus in particular, addresses the question of whether life has any inherent meaning, and the need of human beings to recognize the absurdity of life and the universe and reconcile oneself with it. Camus says that eventually, humans will directly encounter the irrationality and meaninglessness of human life, and either try to elude the absurd through God, suicide, and the like, or acknowledge the absurdity of life, reconcile oneself to it, and derive meaning through the struggle for happiness itself. This struggle for self-created rather than objective meaning requires not surrender, but revolt. 
This is precisely what Patrice Mersault, the protagonist of A Happy Death, does. Living in near poverty and spending his days working as a clerk for little money, Mersault kills a rich invalid named Zagreus for his money, and begins travelling in search of personal happiness—not selfish hedonism, but meaning. Mersault’s journey embodies how Camus posits humans handle the absurd, and Alison Bechdel’s own encounter with death can be explained in such terms once they are established.
First, we are faced with the urge to find meaning in our lives. Mersault’s first inkling of this need for meaning comes from Zagreus. He convinces Mersault that his life is being wasted as he works day-to-day as a clerk, and that money can afford him the time he needs to find happiness. "What I’m sure of," he says, "is that you can’t be happy without money." Zagreus convinces him that he will die an unsatisfied man if he does not have the means to pursue happiness. Ironically, it is this advice that inspires Mersault to kill him, and after he does, he travels to Prague and tries seeking meaning in his life. 
The second step in handling the absurdity of human life is when, after seeking meaning in life, we must finally concede that there is no meaning in it. In a second pivotal moment, Mersault clearly indentifies the absurdity of human life: after a few days of sadness and sickness in Prague, he sees a dead man with a gaping hole in his head lying ignored in the streets, and has a moment of epiphany. It is in this moment that he acknowledges the futility of trying to find objective meaning in an irrational universe. In short, faced with meaningless death, "Mersault’s rebellion exploded"  and Mersault forces himself to confront his own life and death: "Inside him widened a great lake of solitude and silence above which ran the sad song of his deliverance." A horrible event, it nonetheless succeeds in "delivering" Mersault from his previous mode of living by forcing him to concede that life is utterly devoid of objective meaning.
These two steps describe how humans handle the absurd, and this is where Fun Home intersects A Happy Death; Alison Bechdel, through her father’s death, experiences the sort of existential crisis that Camus describes in A Happy Death. Alison grows up in a funeral home, and encounters death from a very young age, as exemplified by the man with the hollowed chest lying on the prep table. This is not her first encounter with the absurd, however. One might think growing up around coffins and cadavers, might make death seem a little more commonplace, or at least force Alison to come to terms with human death early in life. But while Alison encounters death in everyday life, she does not specifically have to face it as something relevant to her life; she may be surrounded by death, but she does not have to struggle with its inevitability in the way that Mersault does when he chances upon the dead man. Her experience with death does little to prepare her for the inevitable and necessary confrontation with death that comes about as the result of the loss of her father:
You would also think that a childhood spent in such close proximity to the workaday incidentals of death would be good preparation. That when someone you know actually died, maybe you’d get to skip a phase or two of the grieving process—"denial" and "anger," for example—but in fact, all the years spent visiting gravediggers, joking with burial vault salesmen, and teasing my brothers with crushed vials of smelling salts only made my own father’ death more incomprehensible. 
Despite growing up in a funeral home, Alison is unable at first to fully comprehend her father’s death, as, in a sense, his father’s death is her first real experience with mortality. When he does die, though, she is forced to deal with death in the existential manner described by Camus—that is, she is forced to acknowledge the absurdity of human life. This is evidenced by her actions after the death. When she receives the news of her father’s death, rather than being consumed with grief on her bike ride from the library back to her apartment, she "marvel[s] at the dissonance between this apparently carefree activity and [her] newly tragic circumstances." She cries in her girlfriend’s arms for "about two minutes," and when she returns home, she and her younger brother John greet each other with "ghastly, uncontrollable grins." Later, when recounting her father’s death to a friend, she laughs to the point of tears; she writes, "The idea that my vital passionate father was decomposing in a grave was ridiculous." Alison does not respond with grief, because she sees her father’s death as something absurd—"absurd in the sense of ridiculous, unreasonable… though perhaps Camus’ definition of the absurd—that the universe is irrational and human life meaningless—applies here as well." 
Alison’s response to death may seem unhealthy, but by acknowledging its absurdity, she moves on with her life and avoids the same fate as her father. Although Fun Home gives little details of her life after her father’s death, by virtue of Fun Home’s existence, it seems that she is pursuing happiness as Mersault does in A Happy Death; the drive to create one’s own happiness in the wake of acknowledging the absurdity of life is akin to her drive to create art after her father’s death. 
Her father, on the other hand, does not respond to the absurdity of life in the way that Alison or Mersault does. He chooses suicide, a decidedly foolish decision according to Camus’ brand of existentialism. Bechdel writes that she wishes her father had underlined a particular passage in The Myth of Sisyphus: "The subject of this essay is precisely this relationship between the absurd and suicide, the exact degree to which suicide is a solution the absurd." She continues, "It’s not that I think he killed himself out of existentialist conviction. For one thing, if he’d read carefully, he would have gotten to Camus’ conclusion that suicide was illogical." The Myth of Sisyphus comes to the conclusion that man’s search for meaning is futile because human life absurd, but that suicide is an illogical response because it is merely a means of eluding the absurd. 
"Sometimes he seemed the perfect absurd hero, Sisyphus shouldering his boulder with detached joy," Bechdel says, describing how we went about his duties as a mortician. But she continues, "Other times, he was despairing." She writes that Camus, in The Myth of Sisyphus, opines that "we all live as if we don’t know we’re going to die." Alison responds, "But then, he wasn’t a mortician. I suspect that for my father, death was all too convincing." Bruce, then, is a somewhat atypical example of how one makes sense of death. He cannot be merely categorized as one who could not reconcile himself with the absurdity of death. Bechdel, though herself a good example of an existentialist response to the absurdity of death, rejects this simple explanation. "Who was [Camus] to cast logical aspersions at suicide? … Long nights employed in this scutwork of the flesh would make anyone reconsider the logic of not postponing the inevitable."
In the end, though, she labels her father’s suicide "une mort imbécile, any way you look at it." His reaction to death may or may not fit the existentialist’s description of someone who fails to respond to the absurdity of human life. But this does not matter, because he experienced a different kind of death: "I suppose that a lifetime spent hiding one’s erotic truth could have a cumulative renunciatory effect. Sexual shame is in itself a kind of death." This shame has an effect like death on Bruce, especially because it affects every aspect of his life: he comes very close to losing his job and having to move from Beech Creek because of his relationships with his students, and his active homosexuality leads to his wife asking for a divorce. And, of course, he has to deal with society’s judgment of homosexuality; Alison, in the memoir, is tempted to say, "He killed himself because he was a manic-depressive, closeted fag and he couldn’t face living in this small-minded small town one more second."
Perhaps as a result of generational differences—Bruce admits he is envious of the freedom that Alison has growing up in an age when homosexuality is first becoming acceptable — Bruce and Alison Bechdel respond to death in two different ways. Alison and Mersault experience death, acknowledge its absurdity, and forge on regardless, embodying all the qualities of the "absurd hero." But Bruce fails to respond to death in the way that Alison and Mersault do, and while the death he first experiences is sexual and social in nature, the death it results in is, unfortunately, literal. In this way, the inclusion of A Happy Death and other references to absurdism in Fun Home underscore the practical importance of existentialist philosophy: the need to adapt to the absurdity of death—be it literal or psychological—in what is essentially and irrational and unsympathetic universe. Alison and Bruce show the need to reconcile oneself with such a universe—and the consequences of failing to do so.