	Risto Rasa is a Finnish poet whose works are primarily short poems on nature. His poem Kuutamo is about an anthropomorphic frog sitting waterside.

	"Kuutamo" means "moonlight", not in reference to the actual light, but, rather, the time and setting where moonlight is the primary means of illumination. Given that the author is Finnish and writing from a Finnish perspective, we understand the seasons and distribution of daylight to be more arctic than tropical. The presence of water implies that we are not in winter, as it would otherwise be ice. The author is from the middle of Finland in the lakes region, which means nights are short during the summer but extant nonetheless, contrary to how they are in Lapland (where the night disappears entirely for 4 months entirely, a fact referred to as "polar day"). This line therefore places us anytime between midnight and 3:00am.
	Nighttime in Finland, apart from traditional superstitions, is often associated with with the polar night of winter: the time of the year where most of the 24-hour day is taken up by darkness. Lapland experiences the most severe period of this, where the sun truly disappears, where the sun’s light fails to even bleed over the horizon.

	"Veden partaalla" is translated as "by the water", and while technically correct, a more precise translation perhaps might be "at the water’s edge". "partaalla" is the illative case of the word "parras", which my dictionary defines as  "brink, verge or edge."
	By the original translation, we have a setting of nighttime near water by an unspecified distance. In my preferred translation which makes use of the word "parras" by way of "partaalla", we have the edge, the brink of the water, as close as one can get without falling in. We have a traditionally superstitious time of day with only a modicum of light provided by the moon. The superstition is further compounded by being on the brink of the water, the very precipice of an element where humans are forever unwelcome guests.

	Here is our inspector: the frog.
	The frog, a common trope of fairy tales, represents wisdom and knowledge.
	Were this any other character, perhaps a rabbit, the motif of wisdom would not be available as a possible interpretation.

	This line is translated as "sits a frog, wiping his glasses on his sleeve." This takes the idea that the frog is a character of learning and study and realizes the motif in this poem. There is no doubt, at this point, that the frog is a deliberately chosen animal whose anthropomorphism likens humans to the studious frog, sitting on the brink of a void during a superstitious and frightening time that is associated with scarcity, inhospitable conditions, and death.

	Winter is death. Trees lose their leaves as fall arrives, animals hibernate, and food becomes scarce. Animals which would be seen everywhere in Finland in the summer disappear.
	The sun is gone in the winter. It briefly reveals itself as light and color leak into the sky from beyond the infinite space below the horizon.
	This is the time for "kuutamo", for moonlight. Moonlight, which emanates the most from the full moon, a further superstitious element.

	Kuutamo.
	Night has come. Darkness is here. There is no sun. Light is scarce, sight has become less useful, conditions are inhospitable, and stories of death percolate through 100,000 years of human history.


	Man is able to freely roam on land and make his home wherever he may succeed. In water, an additional hurdle of the lack of usable oxygen is imposed. Sight, the most used and heavily relied-upon sense, is largely diminished and often only usable within the layer of water closest to the surface. In moonlight, sight in water is effectively non-existant, making it a hostile environment. The ocean and the sea are foreign environments, and as much as humans have tried to tame them and survive on them, we have been only able to do merely that: survive.
	In the view of the mariner and sailor, the ocean is a mother, but still an abyss worthy of fear and reverence. At death, one’s body is returned to the depths of the sea, to an unknown and humbling fate.

	On the very precipice of a great abyss we find ourselves at the moment of minimal environmental support. The water is but a facade, the surface being all we see.
	"Veden partaalla" evokes the idea that we are on the edge of a terrific void whose contents are unknown and beg inspection.

	The often-anthropomorphized fauna of wisdom wipes his glasses on his sleeve, an action representing thought. The frog meditates on the infinity in front of him, the water, and the infinity within, his thoughts.

	We do not know if our protagonist will succeed — we do not even know what the plot, mission, goal even is. We simply know that he is found in the midst of it all before he attacks the situation.
	When he stares into the abyss, the abyss stares back.