Complex Numbers
Complex numbers are an integral part of mathematics, allowing solutions that would not appear to have a solution to have one. They are defined as having a “real” part and an “imaginary” part, though complex numbers are just as real as any other number.

	Ever since I lost my laptop charger — good riddance, that thing sucked — I have taken to working in the Shapiro Undergraduate Library, which students affectionately called “the UGLi”. I feel like an actual college student now, which is cool, and it gives me an opportunity to hang out with friends who I don't see enough of.
	I was walking out the other night when I stopped in the bathroom to fill up my water bottle. White walls, clay-colored stalls. Yellow box. In the corner. It was deliberately intrusive.
	"PUT THEM IN! #yellowbox" read the top. It was a 13.25" x 7.5" x 4.5" plastic box covered with yellow construction paper. "PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE" was written on the front. There was a sign above it that instructed you to write your secrets on the supplied pieces of paper and to slip them in the box.
	I was pretty sure the secrets weren't supposed to be read, but there was something about them that beckoned me. It wasn't that I wasn't supposed to read them — I paid so little attention to that rule that it had no effect on me either way — but, rather, it was the nature of the secret that drew me to violate the confidentiality and privacy of the little folded slips of paper.
	It starts with the entirety of someone's life. Something happens, and they decide that the best move would be to hide it. So they do.
	And then the secret comes alive. It begins to hunger, deep inside a person's thoughts and actions, and it eats away at them.
	So they come face to face with the box, pen, and paper. All the barriers are gone. It'll only take a second. But maybe someone else is there in the bathroom, washing their hands. They look at you. You look at them. They know what you're about to do, and so there's a leap of faith where the writer goes forth, defies judgement, and exposes their secret.
	It's those leaps of faith that accumulate person after person after person until the box is full that pushed me over the edge to take one of the boxes and read through it.

	It started small, just reading a secret or two whenever I went to the bathroom. I'd wait until everyone had left the bathroom before tearing open the box and fishing around for a secret that wasn't just "I wish I were a cat". But I kept going. I started refilling my water bottle in the bathroom instead of by the water fountain because I wanted to read another secret. I all of a sudden had a reason to stay hydrated while studying in the UGLi.
	My favorite secret was that of some straight guy on campus: “I am straight but there is a gay guy in one of my classes and he is so smooth.” He walks out of class chatting with some other guy, and they stop and just converse for a minute or two. They’re both pretty relaxed, neither appearing to try very hard to please the other. But the gay guy turns up the heat on their friendship, making a joke here, asking a question there, touching the straight guy’s elbow for just a second, just to prove his corporeality. Eye contact is made and held for maybe a second too long in places, but neither particularly care. They exchange phone numbers and decide to go get coffee in a few days. The straight guy is feeling pretty good about himself, having just had a solid interaction with someone, and then walks himself to his next class. Only later does he realize that he just got picked up: when have two guy friends ever gone out for coffee?
	The author probably joked about this with his friends, at first. He likely went to their coffee date and had a good time. He didn’t really know how to shut him down or even if he should because he kinda likes him and it’s not that bad and it’s just coffee and he’s touching me but it’s just my arm and it’s fine I do that all the time to my friends why is this any different? Somewhere, someone terribly confused is walking around campus.

	"You know, sometimes I feel like you and Chris are on opposite ends of a spectrum that I have to juggle." I wasn't sure whether what I had said made a whole lot of sense, but I was trying to offer a moment of sobriety for later digestion to Bob, my roommate and one of my best friends. Chris was one of our housemates who joined us just three months ago when the person he replaced went abroad for a semester. He was 24, worked most nights, and when he went out, he went out hard: the Charlie Sheen of our house.
	To set the stage, you've got bright sounds, loud lights, and dirty dancing. We — me, Bob, Chris, and Hannah, Bob's girlfriend — had just gotten into the Cantina bar above Charlie's on South University Street. Hannah was under 21, so I had drawn the appropriate stamp on her hand with a pen and then smudged it as necessary to look real. Hannah has a lot of anxiety about going out, and just persuading her to let us try to sneak her into the Cantina was an ordeal in and of itself. We ultimately had a lot of fun, but it took a lot of work to get there. Bob is similar to Hannah in a lot of ways when it comes to going out, trying new things, and putting himself on the line, although Hannah usually stops at the first in that list.
	This makes Bob and Chris something of opposites, and when we go out together, I generally have to help balance the impulse-driven and plan-driven worlds of Chris and Bob, respectively.
	Chris had momentarily stepped out when I dropped that line on Bob. I'm not sure why I decided that that was the perfect moment to tell Bob about how I use him as a moral weight. And he knew that he keeps me level, to a certain extent, and we joke about how even though I think that he makes me sociable to the general public, he really doesn't.
	"I'm wondering when you'll realize that I'm a real person and not a figment of your imagination."
	
	I knew I had hit rock bottom when I started thinking about those secrets after hours. Late one Saturday night, I hatched a plan to steal all of the yellow boxes and read all of the secrets. There was nothing to gain from it, there was nothing to learn. It was just that moment of connection by being the only person to read a secret that someone has. They set up this barrier, and I was able to move past that barrier — however unethically — and see parts of this person that made them human: their fears, their insecurities, their frailties.
	I woke up early on Sunday to go to the library. I packed my bags and walked over instead of biking. I usually ride my bike everywhere which is great for saving time. When I walk, there grow entire passages of time between engagements that didn’t use to be — shocking, I know. I wanted to walk to the library that day. I wanted to build the separation between the real world and my desires in the library. I wanted some one-on-one time with the people in the yellow boxes.

	I went into the first male bathroom I saw on the first floor and went to the sinks to get the yellow box. I reached out to grab —
	There was no yellow box.
	I looked around, I looked for signs of anything yellow, but there were none. It was as though the box had never existed.
	I went to the second floor.
		No box.
	Third floor.
		No box.

	"Hey, would you be able to do me a favor?" I walked up to a random girl sitting close to the bathrooms. She stopped what she was doing and looked up. "In the women's bathroom there should be a yellow box. Would you be able to get that for me?" She agreed to and returned empty handed.
	"No box."
	
	Finally, after approaching three people, I found what was ostensibly the last box in the UGLi on the second floor in the women's room. The girl who did my dirty work didn't immediately hand me the box:
	"What's this for?" She guarded the box under her arm.
	"I'm doing a project on the things people write in the box. It looks like they removed the boxes from the other bathrooms, so I think this is the last one left." I suppose I was technically only half-lying.
	"Oh, well good luck with your project, then." She handed me my prize.
	
	I grabbed a table. I set down my backpack and took off my jacket. I had literally dreamed of this moment the night before. Day dreamed, but still dreamed. I reread the words on the box, making extra note of the "PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE" label on the front, and then opened the top and dumped everything inside onto the table.
	They were just pieces of paper. There was nothing special about them. Some were on yellow tickets, others were on carefully cut scraps, and others, it seemed, were torn away on a spontaneous decision to put something in the box. I read through every scrap. I wanted to make sense of it all.

	I separated the scraps into piles: the serious and the fake. It was disappointing to see that some people didn’t take the yellow box seriously. I had come there to realize the people in the yellow box, and to see these jokes felt like a spit in the face. It made me feel like what I was doing had no purpose, that there was nothing to see here, that my mission was hopeless, that I should stop and go home.
	It was interesting to see that someone would make a joke, though, and put it somewhere where no one would see it. They thought about it, they laughed, and they wrote it down. Then they put their joke in the box. They put their joke — a gesture of language and communication intended for connection and other people — in a box that no one should open. Clearly, there was someone on the other end of their jokes that wasn’t obvious. Was it me?

	I didn't leave the UGLi after I read the secrets. I just wasted time. I sat on Facebook, doing the same thing I was just doing: reading short sentences people wrote and looking at their accompanying photos that were terribly crafted snapshots of their lives.
	Three friends of mine saw me and came over. The first thing they noticed was the yellow box next to me.
	“Is that the secret box from the bathroom?” The girl who said that was a little louder than she should have been. I opened my mouth to respond but —
	“You’re not supposed to take that!” She continued. I began to blush and wanted to look around, but “an innocent man doesn’t run.” I might lack certain morals, but contrary to popular opinion, I do possess shame. Her volume was higher than I wanted and I could feel my feet sliding, sliding down a slippery slope and into the depths of the rabbit hole.
	“Let’s read them and try to figure out who they belong to!” the second girl chimed in, building on the emotional groundwork laid by her friend. I took her joke as my cue to publicly defend the people in the yellow box.
	I put my hand over the box, covering the aperture. I defended it. I coveted it. “No, you can’t. These are other people’s secrets. You can’t just read them.” The hypocrisy was lost on me for a moment. “It’s different for me. I’m doing a project on them.” Crisis Averted?
	“Wait, is that the box from the women’s bathroom?” A fourth party had joined the conversation, this time from the table I was sitting at. I didn’t know who she was. She seemed to have materialized out of nowhere.
	I looked over at her. She was sitting upright in her chair, hands on the edge of the desk. She looked focused. On her work? On me? Oh yes, it was definitely on me. Her eyes darted towards the yellow box.

	Ok, I'm on the deck of a pool. Indoors. Loud. Very loud. Let's try breathing.
	Nope, not happening. Diving mask on my face, and it's full of water. Can't see a thing. Can hardly see the deck beneath me. At least I'm facing down as I'm doing pushups.
	So I'm doing pushups. Alright.
	"alakjdsfoix"
	I... I... I think it's trying to communicate.
	Oh shit that's cold. There's water being poured on my head and back.
	"Brown, why did I pour water on you?"
	Do I look like a mind reader? Sir, I don't know. Am I in trouble or should I keep doing pushups some more?
	Hah, as if what I'm doing can even be called pushups. I am at the Naval Academy. Got in last night. It is a Special Forces training weekend. Simulated combat stress for 27 hours. We started 7 or 8 hours ago, and have been under constant stress and, sometimes, very literal weight.
	"Why am I pouring water on you?" he repeats himself.
	"Get straight!" Another male voice, this one closer and louder. I think they're talking about me. Ok, back straightened. Wow this hurts.
	Lather, rinse, repeat. I feel like this is unending, as though each repetition were another chance at redemption, but I never quite succeed.
	It's cool though because success is not the point of this exercise.
	
	"alsdjflkjd water!" No time for questioning the garbled sounds. My hour of doom is upon me.
	splashsplashsplash Are other people jumping in?
	splashsplashsplash Smart money says "yes".
	Hm. I still can't see very well.
	"Get your elbows above the water!"

	Tension rising.
		Arms hurt.
	Stress building.
		Legs hurt.
	I can't kick fast enough, hard enough, or well enough to stay afloat.
	Can't stay afloat. Tilt my head back. To float. Maybe. Just a little bit better.
	My nose is plugged with water.
		Dripping back.
			And down.
	I gag.
				Is this what drowning feels like?
	I know I said I wouldn't quit, but this is different, right?
	I gag.
				Am I drowning yet?
	I told myself I would only quit once I drowned.
				Close enough?
	I am going to be kicked out at some point. Ditch and dons will be my death.
	I gag.
				Water, water, everywhere.
				And all of it I drink.

	So many people in this library. All around me. I feel surrounded. In front of me are three people I know, one of whom is remaining silent, and to my right is a nervous, frightened girl whom I have set on edge.
	What am I supposed to say?
	“Yes.”
		Quick, think of something else to say. Defend your unscrupulous hypocrisy!
	“I’m writing a paper on them.”
		Ah, a veritable wordsmith.
	“But everything will remain anonymous.”
	She’s looking at me still. Please, say something.
		Buy what I’m selling.
		Pick up what I’m putting down.
	She’s slouching now, this is good.
	“Oh, okay…” Finally.
	Don’t use the word “secrets”: “I’m not transcribing what is written on these scraps.”
		Well that makes her and her inner secrets seem like trash.
	“I’m just writing about the general theme of the secrets.”
		Congratulations on failing to avoid the word “secrets”.
	“Ah, I thought you were typing them all up.”
	I wonder what would happen if I typed them all up?

	Too much water.
	I tear off my mask.
	GASP
	Four fingers in the air.
		Is this real? Did I just do that?
	I quit.

	My three friends left after that exchange. The girl to my right went back to work, possibly shaken in some unseen way. I removed myself from the area. It was tainted. It was too real. Something in that yellow box was alive, enough so for people to feel fear and stress over. It was a living being that had no feelings of its own, so it inspired emotion in others.
	I had to put the yellow box away. It was too dangerous. It was getting me into trouble. I didn’t want to, but I knew I had to. I wanted the other boxes. There were six out there, somewhere, and they weren’t calling my name. No, I was calling theirs.
	I walked up to the second floor again and found some girl sitting by the bathroom. I asked if she could do me a favor and put the yellow box I was holding back in the women’s bathroom. I entrusted her with the box — is this real? Did I just do that? — she looked as though I had handed her gold.