	Michigan traditionally lets out in late April while everyone else is still in school, leaving me emancipated from responsibility. My dad makes the trip out from New Hampshire by car every year to pick me up and take my home. I look forward to time alone with my dad where we can talk about math, computers, the military, the upcoming summer, fruit — it’s nice to be able to interact with my father as a peer rather than a subordinate.
	That eastward drive, that pilgrimage home — it all is an extended buildup before the peak of arriving home. After 14 hours of being acutely aware of my location on roads that I only slightly recognize, I can finally step out of the car and see what I have known for years. The scent of pine throughout the town. The north wind that blows down across the White Mountains. The Dartmouth clock tower, visible on the horizon, regardless of how well-nestled you are in the woods. Down in the valley where I live, the trees are deciduous, and when the sun hits the branches lush with summertime leaves, the whole area glistens green. It’s the perfect place to sit on a hill, with a bottle or two of wine, as you watch the sun sink into the horizon and dip into the river below.
	I look forward to my homecoming every year because it affords me weeks of time to put the rest of the world on hold. I can call up my friends and go sailing, or we can bag peaks and hike all the four-thousand-foot mountains in the state. We can make lunch and sit on the green and wave to everyone we know and stare down those we don’t.
	Except I can’t.
	Because no one else is home since they’re all at school or gone for the summer.

	I struggled for a few weeks with what I was to do. There was no one around, and I was getting cabin fever stuck in my house all day. The routine of eating, running, eating, sleeping was getting to be too much — or, more accurately, not enough. I had spent all year on the computer programming; I was ready for something different. Night would roll around, the stars would shine, and I would try my best to not reminisce and yearn for days gone past.

	Many of my high school friends who went to Dartmouth run on the cross country or track teams. The runners hang out with the other runners, so when I see one runner I know, I see three others.
	Kelly Wood is a high school classmate of mine who ran cross country and track with me. She always held herself a little distant from me and was somewhat of a bully in school, but after going away to Dartmouth, she became much nicer to me and much more approachable. She studies geology and spent last fall studying the land in Wyoming. She speaks Spanish and French and is a major sports fan. Kelly ran on the Dartmouth cross country and track teams up until a few months ago. Her favorite color is green and her middle name is Anne. I occasionally call Kelly when I am in town to meet up with her or to go out to a party.
	Claire Arthur is a Massachusetts girl who goes to Dartmouth College. She is in the class of 2014, and she runs on the track and cross country teams with Kelly. Claire studies geology as well and enjoys blueberry picking. We have known each other for about two years.
	Claire is a gorgeous girl whom I met several times through the happenstances of life in Hanover: once I was handing out donuts, another time I was at a party, and yet another time I was on a run. I was introduced as a friend and high school classmate of Kelly, and our run-ins were innumerable.
	All I know is that it was a Monday night and I was in the Baker Library, Dartmouth’s library, with a sackful of donuts; midterms were in full swing, and I was looking up foreign newspapers and handing out donuts to hungry students. Claire turned the corner, saw me, and stopped.
	"Ari Brown?" Her eyebrows furrowed slightly, her head leaned forward and dropped just an inch, and her mouth was almost smiling. This dance happened almost every time she saw me: the same tepid level of excitement that pulls me in for brief conversation every time.
	But the part that kills me every time is hearing my last name: "Brown". Ari is not exactly a common name, but "Ari Brown" is no better an identifier than simply "Ari"; in any given scene, the likelihood of there being two "Ari"s is approaching zero. Hearing Claire — or anyone, for that matter — speak and refer to me by my full name clues me in that I’m not real, that my presence is a shock, that in a town of 5,000 people with a nightlife of 1,000, running in to me would be a fantastical strike of fate. It invalidates my selfhood. I become a caricature of myself.
	"What are you doing here?" she continued.
	"I’m great, thanks for asking. I’m here to get a book and deliver donuts to dying nerds." In retrospect, having a sack of donuts like I were Santa Claus did not aid my plea for realism. I wielded the sack around, opened it up, and revealed to her hundreds of donuts, courtesy of Jenna the closing Dunkin’ Donuts employee. Jenna is also a substitute teacher in the Mascoma school district.
	There is no consistent narrative between me and Claire. There is no single moment that is my definitive proof that she considers me to be an ephemeral being. There is only an array of interactions whose accumulation creates this dark, looming cloud of doubt. Interactions with Claire felt gently dipped in an anesthetic of some sort; I felt subtly painted over with a thin layer of transparency.

	"I thought Beatrice Keedsler had joined hands with other old-fashioned storytellers to make people believe that life had leading characters, minor characters, significant details, insignificant details, that it had lessons to be learned, tests to be passed, and a beginning, a middle, and an end." Kurt Vonnegut came to me in a moment of deus ex machina while I read Breakfast of Champions during a bout of loneliness this past summer.
	I was a minor character in a story that would endure for every summer for the length of college.
	Ari was struggling to make friends at Dartmouth.

	I got brunch with people after a night out, once. Well, I had used my real name, but everyone was under the impression that I was a Dartmouth student. The people were Jen Dyment, Elise Croteau-Chonka, and Tomo Berry, though Tomo never showed. Jen and Elise were transfer students and were looking for new friends, conveniently enough. Tomo is a male cheerleader. We went to the Jewel of India, a fabulous Indian restaurant on Lebanon Street. It was a Sunday, so we were able to eat their brunch buffet for $9.66 per person, including tax. White table cloths underneath glass tops gave the restaurant a classy feel, and if you didn’t know that the owner would sexually harass younger women who worked there, you would think of it as a genuinely classy restaurant.
	"So I have a confession to make." I wanted to come clean for the first time. It was time to see if the bridge I had built was flame-resistant. Jen and Elise kept eating; they didn’t think my coming confession was of any gravity. "I’m not a Dartmouth student."
	Elise stopped eating. "Then what are you?" Her phrasing made me feel like an alien, unworthy of eating at the table with them. I realized then that my bridge was not ready for primetime yet. But it was too late, as I had already spoken; the bridge was burning.
	"I’m a college student, I just don’t go to Dartmouth."
	"Why would you lie?"
	Because you wouldn’t have engaged me in any real capacity had I not. Because we wouldn’t be eating Indian food right now had I not. Because you would have deemed me not worthy of your time had I not. Jen and Elise cut contact to me after that.
	I shouldn’t have lied to them. Or should I have? Did they stop talking to me because I lied, or because I wasn’t a Dartmouth student? Was I a minor character that had tricked them into thinking I was a major one? Did they feel like I had distracted them from their goal of making friends at Dartmouth?
	Everything went smoothly when they thought I was a Dartmouth student, but cutting out of the lie and becoming Ari Brown the Michigan student went less than stellar.
	Whatever, they’re minor characters. I learned my lesson and now they’re gone.

	Joe Carey is a guy I ran with in high school. He is an incredibly charming person and an unbelievable runner. After graduating high school, he moved down the block and became a Dartmouth student. He now runs on the track team and enjoys the plethora of outdoor activities available to him. He once spent a summer living alone in Alaska. In his words, "It was fun but it sucked".
	wednesday loop at 830 tomorrow? I texted Joe asking about a run. Eight miles at 8:30AM. We would leave from his team’s lockers and do what we had dubbed "The Wednesday Loop," a loop that took us up the largest hill in town and into Etna, the next town over that was nestled in the woods so deeply that even satellites failed to properly image it.
	k. cardigan afterward Joe responded shortly thereafter. Mt. Cardigan is a peak just forty-five minutes east of us. It happens to be my favorite mountain due to its view and short hike to the top, requiring only about an hour. It is known for having the most "bang for your buck."
	We met up for the run and spent the hour hanging out and talking. That’s what makes running such an enjoyable activity: you have unadulterated alone-time to simply speak your mind. No electronics, no other people, no interruptions. It is akin to road trips, in this respect. After returning to the locker room, Joe told me that someone else was coming on the hike: Matt Pierce.
	Matt Pierce is junior at Dartmouth who, you might’ve guessed, is on the cross country and track teams with Joe. Matt hails from upstate New York and dreams of one day owning a large tract of land in Montana. He studies geology and finds an interest in GIS and other modern mapping technologies.
	Matt, Joe, and I stopped by my house so I could change before going hiking. We all came inside and wished my mother a happy birthday, as it was her 61st. Her name is Jean Elliott Brown, and although she used to sing and act professionally on Broadway, she now only does it recreationally. Matt, Joe, and I then proceeded with our day and went to the top of Mt. Cardigan. At the top, we bathed in the sun and watched the clouds roll by. We were lucky enough to see an eagle fly over us and play in the air thermals. The trees went on for miles in every direction, and we enjoyed sandwiches, cheese, and beer on the top. I treasured my day of having friends in town without any feeling of ephemerality. It was Matt, Joe, and I, and none of us were going anywhere. We sat. We talked. We ate. We drank.
	That day was unreal. It wasn’t that it was particularly exciting up on the mountaintop, but rather it was excessively normal. The sun was perfect, shining straight above us; not a cloud in the sky. The trees were in full bloom, bleeding green. We drank beer like we were older than we were. We were woodsmen in a time when we were nothing but some kids with a car and an altered sense of reality and responsibility.
	After coming down the mountain, we went our separate ways before meeting up again to go out that night. I had only met Matt that day, and I was excited that we had hit it off so well; there was no sense that he was expecting me to leave soon or that we wouldn’t see each other again that summer, month, week, or day. We went out that night to a fraternity, specifically Beta, and got mind-numbingly drunk. Neither of us were able to stand very well, and we could not stop laughing.

	Enter Graylin Harrison, a Chicago girl who used to run with Kelly and Claire on the cross country and track teams at Dartmouth. Graylin studies studio art and art history and is going to Italy in three weeks. Her favorite color is hunter green and she does not like to be woken up in the middle of the night. She is gluten intolerant and hopes to work as an understudy for an artist this coming summer. Graylin is dating Matt Pierce and has been for the past year.

	Graylin was with Matt and me in the basement of Beta that night, and when Matt was unable to take care of himself any further, she walked him home. When I came to my senses somewhat and realized that Matt had disappeared, I texted him and Graylin, trying to piece together the puzzle. Graylin, realizing that I was quite drunk and that I had to walk a mile through cop-infested streets, suggested that I come back to Matt’s place and spend the night there. I obliged.

	When I arrived at the dorm room, Matt was already sufficiently asleep in his bed. I was uninterested in joining him, so I sat in the lounge with Graylin. And we talked. For hours. The sun was up and I was sober by the time I left and decided to get some sleep; I was pleased to see that the beauty of the previous day carried into the sunrise and morning air.
	Graylin and I are now good friends, and we talk often. I have visited her in Chicago, and I even spent last Thanksgiving with her family instead of flying out east to be with mine. To her, I am real and not some fleeting minor character.

	Graylin was the first of her friends to drop running due to injury. She was the only one of her friends who was unable to make the 14 hours of running per week necessary to compete at their level. Her growing distance from her friends coincided neatly with my arrival in town.
	Sometimes we go through periods where we don’t talk, and other times we go through periods where we talk a lot. She fills me in on what has happened with her life, and I have noted that the frequency with which we talk is directly related to how well her affairs on campus are going. As she grew further and further apart from her team, we spoke more and more. As her time at school got better and she hung out more with her friends and teammates, we spoke less and less; her texts became one-word answers that ended conversations instead of allowing them to grow organically.

	At the end of the summer, there’s clear anxiety in the air: exams. And you would think with my preclusion that I would be unburdened by the same fear that I endure, but it gets to me too. All of a sudden, the friends that I’ve made are holed up in their rooms or the library, and I’m left holding the pieces. The only thing that is real to them is the pressing issue of studying and how much they don’t want to do it.
	I go home. I make breakfast. I wave to the mailman. I pick up the mail: junk mail, junk mail, bill, and a check for me. I was going to go to Finland for the rest of the summer to work for their Forest Administration, and to fund the trip, I sought money from the Scandinavian Department. I ultimately received money from the Swedish Women’s Educational Association — I didn’t ask questions; I simply smiled and thanked them. The Scandinavian Department, as a subset of the German Department, gave me the money to make my summer nearly free. I couldn’t see why a group based around funding women’s education in Sweden would send a man to chop trees in Finland, but as one man on my flight to Helsinki put it, "they saw an opportunity to invest in the future, and they took it." For the slowly dwindling cultures of Fenno-Scandinavia under the influence of American culture, anyone wanting to learn their language and study their culture is an opportunity to make their world real to someone else.

	It was tough to make friends in Finland, given that I was only there for a short time, but I did make one friend, Julien. Julien Piffard is from France and studies National Park Land Management in Bordeaux, and he was interning at Urho Kekkonen national park in Finland at the same time I was. We bonded over speaking French and English, similar tastes in music and TV, similar senses of humor, and a shared dislike of the other Frenchman, Mickäel, whose inability to consider how his plans affect others left us all with a sour taste in our mouths.
	About halfway between America’s Independence Day and France’s Bastille Day, Julien had to leave for France. He had been in the park for six months, since January, and our time had overlapped for about a month. We could’ve hitchhiked to the Arctic Circle if we had wanted to, but it would’ve been a five hour trip south to do so. We had just begun figuring out how to enjoy and experience the area when Julien had to make his flight home.
	It was a Monday night, or would’ve been if we had seen the moon in a month. The sun was shining over an open stretch of road in the middle of a sloping forest at the foot of the naked fells and rolling tundra that all stretched to the Russian border, some hundred miles to the east. I stood at the edge of our driveway underneath some pine trees by a small snowbank on the edge of that road. It was about a 6km drive to the highway, and from there I think it was a straight shot of 50km to the nearest town. From there, Julien would fly from the airport to Helsinki on the other end of the country. He loaded his two large bags into a small car that was being driven by one of the other workers in the park. We hugged. He got in. They sped off.
	I walked back inside our — now "my" — cabin.

	"Mom, how am I getting to Michigan this year?" I knew I had to ultimately end my homestay in Hanover and return to Michigan. School called. The Navy called. Friends called. I could figure it all out at the end of the summer, but I knew it would be best to start framing the cross-country trip early.
	That westward drive, that adventure to school, that return of the prodigal adopted son of Michigan — after 14 hours of being acutely aware of my location on roads that get progressively less familiar, it’s a relief to see them all of a sudden become familiar, to see the houses where I’ve slept and the people that not only I’ve missed but have missed me. That drive from Toledo to Ann Arbor — I could recite it backwards and forwards on any given day of the week in any state of mind. Take I-80 and drop to 75 South. Turn onto 23 North. Hop off on Exit 37B — watch out for A and C: they’ll be marked for Ann Arbor but they lead off to the rest of the township.