	Thanksgiving 2013. DC. Grandma is passed out on the couch — I think we finally got to her. After three, four, five days (I’ve lost count) of her badgering us to do this, to not do that, to go see some museums, we’re finally enjoying a moment of silence. The reprieve is only experienced by me and my cousin David, however; our cousins Drew and Allie just left an hour ago, and now we’re sitting here doing work. We’re writing, actually. He, a TV show; me, this.
	For our time in DC, we really did only two things: we would run for 20 minutes in the morning at a painfully slow pace mixed with a heavy amount of walking, and we would watch TV. We were lucky enough to have On Demand and some various HBO and Showtime shit, so we did what any good people would do: watched the shit out of some random show.

	Californication.

	That was the name of our first addiction, starting Wednesday afternoon. It’s a show about a writer who doesn’t write, his failed marriage, and how he fucks anything with two legs. This would be an appropriate place to say that he fucks his way in and out of trouble.
	I mean, the dude’s a writer. He writes semi-to-fully-autobiographical pieces. He lives in a shamble of an apartment, is an alcoholic, fucks an ungodly amount of women, is constantly hitting on his ex-wife — who receives it well 80% of the time — and holds his daughter’s heart as she holds his. He’s a writer in the most romantic sense of the term: completely fucked up, a womanizer, a drunk, and living a life on the verge of ruin. He is Hemingway. He is O. Henry. Edgar Allen Poe. F. Scott Fitzgerald. More than that, he’s an expatriate of his home that is the Big Apple, instead living in Los Angeles.
	And I want his life. I want everything he has. I was sold at first on a visceral level: money, drugs, women, freedom, writing.
	I want money to do things. To buy things. To give away. There’s a quote from the show Castle, where the main character (eponymously named Castle), a filthy rich writer, says that money buys him the freedom to do what he wants.
	Drugs: the mark of depravity. The telltale for adventure and misdeeds, dark paths and strangers.
	Infinite one-night-stands with girls whose names he doesn’t even remember. Who doesn’t love being adored?
	Freedom, the sense of being in charge of your own life.
	Like, look to my left: cousin David. David lives in LA. David is a jack-of-all-trades in the industry of moving pictures, be it movies or TV shows. David lives in the guest house of his friend. David uses recreational drugs. David doesn’t date a lot of women, but David has freedom. He has true freedom to do whatever he wants: in a couple weeks, he’ll be living in New York City for a couple of months to work on a movie there. Then maybe he’ll move back to LA; things are very fluid in his life.

	But then, in the middle of an argument with his wife when she suggests that he go see a shrink about his issues, the writer in Californication spins around and raises a thoughtful finger in the air in concert with his volume: "I’m a writer, I don’t give that shit away for free!"
	Huh.
	Well that’s an interesting take on it.

	I started seeing a psychologist again. Two weeks ago was my first session. The dude’s name is Jean-Paul Pegeron, and although his accent does not betray him, that man is as French as they come: a portrait of Paris on his wall, his soft voice, his first and last names.
	I’ve been struggling to talk in there, though.
	On the one hand, I’ve been so used to having information somewhat forced out of me, teased out of me over the course of months and years that being open with it, even though that I am, is still very… strange. Odd. I’m worried that I’m trying to bleed for him, but I’m not actually hitting a vein. I bitched out some girl in an English class for that once. She did it with pride, more of orgueil, to put the extra emphasis on the negativity of her pride.
	And on the other hand, I feel like I just don’t have anything to talk about, thanks to writing. When I’m sitting there in the chair, facing the quiet, aging man to whom the years have only been so kind, I feel like I’m telling a story. Or maybe I literally am, reciting verbatim what I had written down maybe one week or five months before.

—

	We had to stop watching the show after the first season. We were being yelled at for watching too much television, but we didn’t give a fuck about that. This was a visceral, soulful plea to not watch any more episodes.

—

	The fast lane was made just for me. And it’s good that everyone’s getting used to hearing that they’re not special. While they all set down their dreams and ambitions, I’ll appreciate the eased congestion.