	I quit my job at the end of last semester. I was working in outdoor-clothing retail at Bivouac, which, for those who don’t know, pays their employees 10 cents above minimum wage and is run by a man who screams at his employees in front of customers and breaks things in regular fits of rage. I quit my job because I felt my time could be better spent, even though I would no longer be bringing home my minimum-wage paycheck.
	But, as part of my New Year’s resolution to not be a dumbass anymore, I had a second job lined up. I suppose now I’m working in direct opposition to the clothing industry. It pays better, for one, and its dress code is a little more relaxed. I was hired by the Stamps School of Art and Design as a figure model: I get naked for pay.

	My mom was an artist, and she pushed me heavily into the arts, which I subsequently rejected on principle. I grew up in a house with framed nude sketches on the walls that my mother had drawn. I was excited to tell them about my new job because — let’s be honest — not everyone gets to lie and say they’re a male model and only be half lying.
	“So, I finally quit my job at Bivouac.”
	“Alright! Finally!” My parents had been asking — or telling? Pick one — me to quit my job at Bivouac for two weeks now, citing that I needed more time to work on my rapidly approaching projects. I was only speaking with my mother on this phone call, though.
	“I ended up getting a second job, though.” There was a little hesitation in my voice: part deliberate dramatic timing, part legitimate nerves. “I’m a figure model.” The spoken job title was deliberately chosen instead of “nude model” to make my parents’ son seem less like a porn star and more like a dutiful art helper. Strangely for the first time, I thought that maybe this was something I should’ve kept from from my parents.
	“You’re too funny. Best advice is don’t catch a cold. One day you’ll find out it’s okay to keep your best stuff private.” Thanks, mom. For all the things she could’ve said to me, that is on the better end of the spectrum.
	Ah, but of course: 40 minutes later, they called back. This time, my parents were together on the other end.

	I had played this game before. I knew what was happening and why it was happening. As a kid, I was finely attuned to the good-cop-bad-cop relationship that formed between me and my parents: my father was harsh and definitive, and my mother was gentle and forgiving. For a long time, I would independently ask them questions and receive different answers from which I could choose to obey. Eventually, they got smart and chose to act as a singular parental unit. It was amusing for a while to force my mother, who would invariably be the one to capitulate her opinion, take up and defend a side that she disagrees with.
	My mom was alone for the first phone call, and once my father got wind of my reckless professional endangerment, the two had to team up under one banner and deal with me.

	I entertained the momentary pleasantries over the phone. So polite, and after having received these phone calls every time one of my transgressions crossed five state borders for years now, I was well accustomed to the drill.
	“Your father and I have been thinking — we know that you are an adult who will make your own choices, but your dad and I want you to know that we strongly advise you not to take this or any job like this.” My mom was speaking. I could hear my dad breathing on the line through a different phone. This was a proxy war, and I had to fight both my father, whose resolve is unwavering and stubbornness knows no bounds, and my mother, whose desire to act as a single parental unit outweighed any yearn for reason.
	I was not about to ask why. In my vast experience of warring with my cohabitants, I knew that if there was any possibility for any of us to have a change of heart, it was not going to happen over the phone. These wars are won through a series of skirmishes, ambushes, and politicking rather than any large battle.
	“There are multiple reasons for this, both professional and psychological. Neither your employer nor your parents think this is a good idea.” As a student in the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps program, my employer is the Navy. As a someone living across the country from where I started, I am an orphan. The Navy does not concern themselves with my legal work. My parents? At this point, I am ready to relinquish my legal claim to the last name “Brown”.
	“Maybe, instead of asking us, you should talk with Miriam.”

	That’s it, we’re fucking done.
	Miriam is — was — the psychologist I went to every week for 10 years. My mother forced me to go because my father and I had such issues with each other that made our house nigh uninhabitable: loud screaming and never-ending yelling, insufferable rules and unrelenting disobedience. Miriam was the psychologist I had to see but my father didn’t. She is a constant reminder that I am inferior to my father and we will never be equals. That I am subjected to therapy but my father isn’t.
	Don’t get me wrong: even though I absolutely hated seeing Miriam for 9 out of the 10 years, I grew to see its valuable and it has been absolutely tremendous in my personal growth and development.
	But this was not the time to comment about my personal growth. This was not what Miriam was being used to represent. She was being used in this context to say that I was wrong and had to be fixed, while my parents were perfect and infallible. They took what was a communication issue between the three of us and made it my personal misunderstanding.

	I hung up the phone. I was livid. I could not believe they just failed to state their reason for offense and then had the nerve to redirect it as my failure. Why were they even mad in the first place? It’s just a job. I’m helping out art students. You painted nude models when you were in college. You still do! You fucking hypocrite! This is bullshit. Why can’t they just leave me be? “… a poor professional and psychological choice…” Are they for real? Is this real life?
	I just want them to be proud. It’s too hard. Nothing I do is right. It’s always off. I can’t stand this. Stop. I’m going ahead with this job. I’m going ahead with modeling. You can’t stop me. This isn’t you. You’re wrong. I’ve looked at it, I’ve considered everything, and my math shows this to be a fine chapter.
	Anger. Sadness. Rage. False tranquility. How do I tell which emotional response is reactionary and which is genuine? How do I deescalate the situation? Tensions were high. This was high school all over again. This was 18 years of what looked to me like shackles and in all likelihood were green pastures. This was 10 years of psychologist appointments, which were the realest part of the shackles. This was utter relapse on my part while my parents merely voiced their concerns.

	I wrote an email. It was angry. I deleted it.
	I wrote an email. It was apologetic. No. I intend to hold onto my pride for all the wrong reasons.
	William Blake, the schizophrenic English poet, once wrote: “I was angry with my friend: / I told my wrath, my wrath did end. / I was angry with my foe: / I told it not, my wrath did grow.”
	I told it not, my wrath did grow.
	I wrote an email. It was angry again. I was beginning to think this was how I really felt. But I was not yet ready to give in to being angry. When Blake wakes in the morning and sees his foe outstretched beneath his poison tree, he lied: Blake failed to mention that he woke adjacent to his foe under the same shade.

	But let’s back up to months prior, before I ever made the mistake of oversharing with my parents. One of my friends, Joe, was telling me a horror story of an art student encountering their model out in the wild of the world. He stopped for a moment and thought out loud: “Actually, I think you’d be pretty good as a figure model.” It would be good money for easy work, and the title would be an interesting addition that I would refuse to put on my résumé. The rules of being a good model: never make eye contact with the artist, and do not talk to the artist.
	I never really got why artists were so scared to meet their models outside the studio (Joe’s story was not the first I had heard). There is a certain amount of tension with the societal taboo of asexual nudity — that I understand — and the disassociation of their frozen model as a human being with dreams, feelings, real-time thoughts, and a pulse is certainly something to grapple with, but I always felt like the compartmentalization was never too much to ask for.
	When I sit at the head of the class, wearing nothing but my birthday suit, I am nothing to the artists. I am simply a model. I am Van Gogh’s sunflowers, the grapes in the bowl on the table, or the hunks of meat in Francisco Goya’s 1812 work.
	Only I seem to know that I am alive, that the grapes are eyes, that the meat is my body. I try to keep it a secret that I’m tired from running, that I am really hurting from this pose, and that I could probably be doing homework right now. I want to make myself an object. I was told that they don’t want to think about the fact that when they go to the UGLI they could possibly run into some guy who willingly got naked for them. I come in at the start of the session quietly, and I leave the same.
	It’s always interesting when the professor uses my name. For the artists, all of a sudden their human-shaped pot of flowers becomes alive. They turn to look at me, and, by the nature of my job, I am unable to look back. I try my best to look forward, but, it’s tough because we have all been socialized to look back. The terrifying part is the instantaneous switch from dehumanized still life to fellow student and kid they might have seen at a party last weekend. I become the recipient of dozens of awkward greetings as they see me come and go — and God forbid they see me around campus, because that reopens the can of worms that was left in the art studio.
	What the artists don’t realize is that I am just as confused as they are about what our interactions are supposed to be like. Can I say hello if I see them first? Should I pretend not to notice them? None of us were formally introduced, yet I know the names of about half of them. Am I their teacher? Am I the equivalent of a guest lecturer? Everyone wants to be recognized for who they are, and the dehumanization could be seen as demeaning. I am okay with the arrangement, although clearly the artists are unsure.
	It is the core concept of being a nude model that my parents are having trouble with. Well, that’s what they say. They say they aren’t okay with the idea of me getting naked in a semi-public forum. But that’s not why they’re mad. They’re mad for some reason unknown. They’re mad for some reason that they haven’t told me, likely because they haven’t told themselves first. This is the core of our relationship issues: the failure to communicate what we are thinking and feeling. The introspection required for all parties involved makes communication a scary endeavor, and it is much easier to look outward, toward the naked man sitting in the middle of the room, than it is to look inward, toward the naked man within. I wish I knew what my parents’ real issue was. I would like to pretend that they simply don’t want to see their young son dehumanized and objectified in exchange for a little bit of cash.

	I modeled this past weekend for a community class. It was a nice work environment, quite different from Bivouac. The originally scheduled model couldn’t make it, so the teacher was quite grateful for my coming in on such short notice. She was very respectful and polite and  was doing everything she could to make me as comfortable as possible: the teacher had brought out a space heater and placed it adjacent to the table on which I did my poses. The easels were set up in a circle around a square table where I stood. I was given complete access to the prop closet and was able to bring out anything I wanted, including a comforter to make my poses my comfortable on the unsanded wooden table.
	Modeling for community members is different from modeling for 18-year-old freshmen students who are forced to draw some naked guy oh god why is he looking at me this is too weird I had better just draw a big nebula for his groin so I don’t have to look at it and another for his face so I won’t remember him.
	Community members at these Saturday classes are there because they love drawing. They want to come in smack dab in the middle of a weekend afternoon and spend it in silence working on their craft. They have opinions. They have preferences. They know what makes an interesting model. I felt like I was helping them get better at making art. I now understood how it feels to be an orange in a still life: noble, quiet, appreciated. This is truly the mark of a golden age: how wonderful it is that we live in a society where people can spend their time studying art and drawing! 
	“Does anybody have any requests for a pose?” I asked the artists.
	“I would enjoy something similar to your earlier pose,” one man said, holding up an earlier drawing he had done of me. I was hunched over, twisted and contorted. The drawing itself was quite good, and he had sketched it in three different colors. The piece itself was so complicated, and on the one hand, I felt bad for creating a pose so visually confusing, but on the other, I had given him what he had wanted. I felt appreciated. I felt like I had a real opportunity to make these people happy.

	There was a remarkably cute girl in the class, as luck and life would have it; the ambiguity on social rules when you’re naked and a guest made it tough to know if I was allowed to talk to her. She showed up late, narrowly missing me doing probably doing the manliest pose I will ever do in my life: the Atlas pose with a large globe from the prop closet.
	About an hour in, we had our first break. I put my robe on, anxious to talk to the cute girl who had just stared at me naked for an hour. Anxious to say something. Anything.
	“Were you playing Coheed and Cambria earlier?” A band just south of the limelight that I thought I had heard, Coheed and Cambria would make a great conversation point if my suspicions were correct. I was wrong, but that didn’t hinder the conversation. We talked about music, school, art — why she was here on North Campus in the middle of a Saturday. She opened up willingly.
	I went back to modeling, picking poses that were as interesting as I could manage. I wanted her to value me more as a person, and I figured by some twisted logic that the best way to do that was to get her to value me more as an object We talked again during the rest of the breaks, getting to know each other a little bit better each time.
	While I was stuck with crossed legs and a contorted torso, I had a thought: that night was the Quidditch team’s Yule Ball, and I was supposed to have a friend come visit who was going to go with me, but she had to renege at the last minute.
	“Hey, so, a friend of mine was going to come visit me today, but she couldn’t make it. We were going to go to the Quidditch team’s Yule Ball.” Obligatory dramatic pause. “Would you like to go with me?”
	She stopped, and I could see the gears in her head spinning. I wasn’t sure whether it was because I just asked her out or because she was just staring at my naked body for the past three hours.
	“Sure, I’d love to. When is it?”
	“Tonight at eight.”
	She wasn’t sure if she could make it that night, and instead of trying to trick her into coming, I thought I would get her number. My phone was dead at the time, so I offered to give her my number instead and told her to call me if she was interested.
	She pulled out a drawing of me from her bag. I wrote my name and number on it, and in a fantastic moment of irony, I gave proof of my humanity next to proof of my objectification.

	I did it. I managed to model without being completely dehumanized. I wish I could tell my parents that I’ve found a solution, that they needn’t worry about my objectification; that their son is doing alright at college, and his job really isn’t that bad; that they have nothing to worry about, I’m making people happy, and I’m making myself happy in the process.

	But that’s not why they’re mad.