	It was Monday.
	It was a Monday.
	After making some phone calls outside North Hall, the ROTC building, I went to my French class to speak some French and hang out with people who don’t know how to have social interactions in a classroom setting. I rolled in and grabbed a seat against the wall on the right, the seat the second closest to the door. Our professor, George Hoffmann, came in and gave us our class. I wish I knew what he was talking about, but I was just so tired. I was warm, wearing my muted green-and-red wool sweater and my tie-dye jeans. It was a big day, an important day, so I figured I should dress to make a first impression.
	Class dragged on. It was getting hot. I was uncomfortable. I wanted to leave. I don’t like this. I want to go home. I just need to leave. At noon, M. Hoffmann let us out, and I left the room and
	walked down the hallway. No, that’s not it. I moved. I walked with purpose. Not a prideful strut, nor a march, but I was moving at a serious pace. The hallway was lined with what must’ve been 50 students sitting down against the walls, waiting for their classrooms to open up. Come get drunk at Charley’s now I got a text during class. Looks like someone’s having a good day. I went up a long flight of stairs and moved outside the double doors and
	was hit with sunshine.
	Beautiful sunshine.
	It was warm.
	Wow, it felt nice. Gentle, caressing. Bright, though, definitely very bright. I stood at the southwest corner of the MLB and was turning right towards my bike.
	“Ari!”
	I turned around.
	Ah, Theresa: Slavic girl, the girl eponymously named for the class which we share.
	“Oh hey! How ya doing? How was Polish?” I knew she had Polish language class at the same time as my French class; we were in the same building, same floor, only three or four doors down from each other.
	“It was good, same old, same old. We watched some Polish rap videos today; they were pretty scary. You might like them though. How are you?”

	Hm.
	I guess I’m good.
	Yeah, I’m good.
	I’m going to get a $15,000 check in four months.
	But I didn’t like making those phone calls today.
	“Bad.”
	I really didn’t like making those phone calls today.
	“Pretty fucking bad.”
	It feels nice to say it.
	To admit it to myself.
	“I think I’m going to Charley’s and get drunk.”
	“We have class in two hours,” Theresa reminded me.
	“I’ll be there.”
	I didn’t go to Charley’s. I went home. I wanted to sleep. I think I should’ve cried, but that’s the issue: do I do what I feel like doing, or do I treat situations with no more respect than they deserve? Mountains and molehills, mountains and molehills…
	I went to my Slavic class.
	i went to my EECS class.
	I ate dinner.
	I slept.

	Three days before was Friday. Four days before was Thursday. But nothing of consequence happened on Thursday.
	Friday.
	I got an email from my XO, stating that our service assignment results were possibly in. And that we would find out soon. As in a matter of hours.
	It’s cool, I can wait. I am an expert in patience. I am an expert in compartmentalization: I am a runner.

	I was dreaming about what it’d be like to be an EOD officer.

	Then the texts started rolling in, asking what I got.
	I had no clue what I got, though. I was days away from knowing what I would be, what I would do for the next 5-10 years most definitively, the next 15 years more extensibly.
	I went on Facebook: my newsfeed was blowing up with people across the country talking about what they got assigned.
	I kept dreaming about what it’d be like to be an EOD officer.
	I could not wait anymore with these texts. Facebook was ruining me, driving me nuts. I literally could not sleep that night.

	Out, out, damn spot!

	I was so happy. I was so excited. I wrote my dad an email, telling him how my nerves were firing nonstop. I knew it was unhealthy to play the numbers game, but I had to. I just had to:
	There are 14 EOD slots for ROTC midshipmen, and 24 midshipmen went on cruise (4 for each cruise, 6 different cruises). That means I’m looking at roughly 2 MIDN/cruise that get a billet for EOD. Out of the 4 on my cruise, I know 2 didn't get it, and one did. I am the only one who doesn't yet know.

	However, things are thrown awry because of a friend of mine who was on a SEAL cruise and dropped: I told him he might be able to go EOD, and so I gave him the appropriate contact information so he could make an interview happen. Despite not going on a training cruise, the only important thing for an EOD billet is the acceptance of the final interview.
	As luck would have it, he got an EOD billet. Which is great, he totally deserves it. But maybe that’s my slot that he took. How would I feel then?

	I’m going crazy. Everyone else in the country knows except for us.

	Out, out, damn spot!

	It was Monday.
	It was the Monday.
	I went to the gym to lift. I showered there, changed, and I left by 7:50.
	I went to my dentist appointment. I got back to campus by 8:50.
	I was at North Hall by 9:00.

	I knocked on my XO’s door first. No response.
	I went to the CO’s assistant’s office.
	“Excuse me, ma’am, what’s the protocol for finding out my service assignment? Should I just knock on the CO’s door?”
	“Yep! He’s in his office and waiting for you.”
	I moved the whopping three feet to get to his office — he could undoubtedly hear me talking to his secretary — and stood at attention, preparing to knock.
	I took my backpack off and set it by my feet. I was dressed to make a first impression, that was for sure: tie-dyed white jeans and a colorful sweater, heavy with greens and reds.

	Three knocks.
	“Good morning, sir. Midshipman Ari Brown requests permissions to enter.”
	“Come in, come in,” yelled the CO from behind his desk inside his office.
	I was moments away from finding out what I would be. Would there be a lot of pomp and circumstance? Would there be a lot of small talk?
	I went in, shook his hand, and — “Have a seat, Brown.” — had a seat on his couch.
	The CO’s office is a pretty intimidating and cold environment. There’s the couch where I was sitting, there’s the desk where the CO sits, and about 15 feet between us. I was worried I’d have to yell to be heard. In the lieutenants’ offices, you sit at a chair right at their desk. Conversation is much easier and it feels like a much more personal experience.

	“Before we begin, sir, I just want to say: if I get EOD, I will shave my mustache.” I was lying; that thing was here to stay.
	Ah, my mustache.
	Poor and blond and thin.
	It is my pièce de résistance.
	It represents who I am in the context of the military.
		Shave that shitstache, Brown.
	Nope. Not gonna happen. It stays. It is the last bastion of rebellion available to Sailors.

	“Well, you didn’t get EOD, so…”

	Oh.


	That’s it?



	That’s how I find out?



	Oh.


	“… You got subs, which ain’t a bad situation.”

	Thanks, cap’n.
	But I don’t need to hear your consolation prize, about how I’m going to love subs, about how it’s a respectable job.
	I don’t want to absorb your thoughts and adopt them as my own.
	I don’t want you to hold my hand as I deal with this.
	I want to do this on my own.

	“… You know, sometimes I’ve gotten my second, third, or even last choice for assignments, but I turned out to love them. I found things out about them that if I had known ahead of time, I would’ve put them as my first choice.” God, that smile he wore, as though he were saying something that were truly comforting. This man is a master at langue de bois, speaking without really saying anything. I feel like all COs are. It was the same way with the two I met over the summer in San Diego.
	Stop talking. I don’t care. i don’t want to hear it. This is my battle. Stop trying to fight it for me. Get out of here.

	I left the office after we had our chat. Big smile on my face, of course, biiiiig smile. Time to inform the interested parties, the board members, the investors. These are people who have invested in some way and are continuing to invest. I am a product of my interactions with them.
	Voicemail, because Matt was in class then: “Hey man, just found out my service assignment: didn’t get EOD; instead, I’m going subs, so I’ll see you in Charleston in 6 months if you’re still around there.”
