	Excellent piece! You really opened up to us in this which is very refreshing. Your voice stands loud and clear, and you talked about some important things to you. I really appreciate that you chose to tell us about them. This is something that a lot of other papers in this class, I felt, have not done.
	You start off with a fantastic title: "Yourself is Yourself, Which Could Be Another". The first half of that title is cliché, but the second part is really fantastic. You set yourself up for an exciting argument that I was really looking forward to read.
	The introductory paragraph is a hilarious read that toyed with that initial question in the title. You finish with part of a sentence and then start the next paragraph with temporally shifted parallel sentence — I absolutely loved this.
	The specific use of dates here makes this a very real experience. It’s not just a story, it’s a time machine. We are there with you. You take us back to middle school where you first learned to respect yourself and have standards for friends.
	Then, you take us to when you had conflict about your being a virgin with your then-boyfriend (friend? Friend? friendboy?) Rob. I think a little clarification of your relationship with Rob would be helpful as it could shed some light simply on how blank of a slate you two are starting with. The night of Aoki is the important part, but just a touch more background would be helpful.
	Finally, you talk about and defend your choice of solo for your BFA final project. You defend yourself and your dignity and your choices well.
	Ultimately, though, you end the piece with a paragraph that can be summarized as "Look at all this stuff I learned!" This really encompasses my issue with your piece: you never make an argument; you simply present some stories and say "this is my transformation".
	To get back to your title, you introduce the idea that you could be posing as someone else or someone else could be posing as you. I’d like to see you return to that idea somehow. Talking about identity confusion would be an interesting thing to read.
	You don’t really set yourself up for any particular argument with the evidence you immediately supply, but I think with a little bit of tweaking and maybe the addition of another story, you could really harken back to your original title.
