	This was a pleasant read. Since I sit next to you every day, I had been anxiously waiting to see your writing. You make a lot of great points and articulations in class, so I had certain expectations for your piece.
	You start with your introduction (duh), which is two paragraphs semi-awkwardly written that both literally talk about finding balance while being misaligned, but also figuratively express that point. By spelling out the meaning and explaining that you hadn’t thought about how those paragraphs would relate to your paper, you show us the same unbalanced and misaligned nature.
	We continue in the present tense to you going to a small group meeting (New Life?). Regardless, I’m glad somebody has the same concerns and issues with it, because one of my good friends raves about how awesome small group is and I think she’s crazy.
	Then we jump to the past tense as you drop us into a narrative of your small group experience — but only for a paragraph and a half. Then it’s back to discursive elements.	 The meetings are deep, but not deep enough. People cry — mostly because of hormones.
	Aaaaand then you talk about all that you could talk about. I’ll quote something from your paper: “I could depict my weakness and my imperfections, and cover every prompt given in the syllabus. But where is the actual vulnerability? How does the deep place of my heart search for answers? What am I reciting and what am I discovering?” Table that idea for a minute.
	Next you talk about how you performed a piece and by some mere stroke of fate, your solo was 15 seconds too long and you missed out on an award but received another. Now we get to something real, how you did this project and others like it because you wanted to, not for some reward.
	And then you ramble for a while. You say “Fuck the police; I am the law.” and decide that this essay will be on truth. Oh, we even have a nice section here where you battle that one discussion we had about DFW.
	Ok, so I guess you really don’t want to write this essay. You wrote a rant that would be given to the entire class to read. You have a mandatorily captive audience. You’re given the mic. You get on stage. You look around.
	And then you just mail it in. You’re an artist, Tehillah, and you just forsake the chance to do something cool. You sit down at your computer and begin to bleed all over the page. But what do you say? Is it even blood? Hardly. You pricked a finger and ran it over everything and said accusatively: “Is this good enough? Where is the vulnerability? I’m not hurting. This doesn’t hurt.”
	So back in my former life of before college, i had problems with my dad. Big problems. He never hit me, though once I hit him over the head with a landline phone (not sure how I managed that). I was an angry child. But the point is I went to 10 years of psychological therapy. I fought it tooth and nail for 8.5 or 9 years. Maybe even closer to 10. My point is that I have a bit of experience with refusing to bleed, bleeding a little, and then slitting your wrists and gushing all over the page or to a person through words.
	You really had something with your first page, but then you just mailed it in. I don’t know what stopped you, but you evidently saw something you didn’t like and so you turned your tail and ran. I open about the fact that I had a shitty relationship with my father, and I’m more than willing to talk about it, but I hate it because it scares me and makes me feel guilty. It exhausts me. I can’t continue.
	You can do this. I know you have it in you to take your first page and your scene about small group and turn it into something bigger. You defend yourself from weakness and introspection. You’re dating some guy. You’re talking about marriage. How is that not fucking huge? Are you scared? Are you ready? Do you bleed for this guy? Can you open up to him? Can you open up for us?
	What’s really the issue here? You don’t have to be right and you don’t have to be good. I just stole a box of secrets from the women’s bathroom. I used to deal drugs in high school. I never used them, I only sold them. I used to extort people. I was a loan shark.
	it’s okay to be wrong.
