	It starts with Alison.
	Alison. Fucking. Lanois.
	Sweet girl, really nice, everyone loves her.
	“This is Joe, this is Jack, Matt, Chase, Tommy, and that’s Ari Brown.”
	She always calls me Ari Brown. Full name, no middle, never just the first.

	I met her once at a party during Green Key, Dartmouth’s big party weekend in the spring. Obviously, as the stranger, she called me Ari Brown.
	I saw her again two other times, just in passing.
	“Ari Brown!”
	“Alison!” I didn’t know her last name. It was good to see her; I enjoyed her company, and she was always up for adventures.

	We were supposed to be dressing up and cooking dinner in a fancy apartment that belonged to the Dartmouth girls’ XC team, “we” being me, Jack Terwilliger, and Matt Pierce. Our plans fell through earlier in the day when Jack found out that the girls’ team was having a picnic along the Connecticut River in Norwich, VT. We were invited, and given the beautiful weather that graced us, it was a tough opportunity to pass up on. Matt decided to go for a run then, so it left but me and Jack. We grabbed our bikes and headed over.
	We actually got to the park before some of the girls did, notably before Alison.
	“Hey Jack! Hey Ari!” We were greeted well; it felt nice.

	Alison fucking Lanois eventually showed up and was immediately absorbed by a phone call. She eventually got off and came over.
	“Hey guys, sorry about the phone call. Oh look, Jack! Ari—“
	I was expecting her to stop speaking there.
	“—Brown!”
	No.

	This is not the first gripe I’ve had with being called my last name. The first time it was an issue for me, I was enraged with my perceived ostracization. The second time, I was more so.  But every subsequent time has desensitized me to the issue — maybe one day I’ll get over it — so for now, I just shake my head on the inside wondering when and how I’ll fix this situation.
	I don’t have to deal with being called something I don’t like. I get it, they’re just calling me by my full name. It’s not a joke. It’s not intended to be mean. I just don’t like it.
	And that’s ok.
	I’m allowed to have emotions that aren’t based in reason. I don’t have to define them. I don’t have to defend them. I am within my rights to simply say “I don’t like this. Please stop.” They are what they are, and, within reason, they are free to be.

	There were a few of us in the kitchen of the track team’s house, and I was explaining why Alison is the worst person in the world and most certainly the modern incarnation of the devil. Jack mentioned that he had met some friends of mine from high school and told me about his meeting them:
	Often, people introduce themselves by giving their year. During the summer, most of the students are sophomores, but there are occasionally upperclassmen and freshmen. For those like me, who aren’t Dartmouth students, that question is tough to answer. I will generally lie for an hour or two, saying that I’m a ’14 (rising senior). My friends from high school will often just directly reveal their non-matriculation. They are thus easily identified as Hanover townies.
	Jack saw the opportunity for connection.
	“Oh, do you know Ari Brown?”
	Someone jumped in:
	“Yes, but don’t call him that. He doesn’t like it when you call him by his first and last name.”
	I don’t know who chimed in to defend me — unnecessarily, as I felt the use of my last name was justified — but it means something. It means a lot. It means that I told people and they listened.
	It doesn’t matter if people think that I am justified or not in what I want, because they’ll still listen and abide by my wish.

	I suppose if I had to put my finger on it, I’d defend my discontent by saying that the use of a complete personal identifier every time makes me feel unnecessarily different. The addition of “Brown” makes the name “Ari” unexpected and unwanted. The use of “Ari Brown” as a single entity makes it appear as one word, as though “Ari” is simply not enough. You say “Ari”, and people just don’t know who you’re talking about. “Ari Brown?” they must ask themselves, “Surely you don’t mean him.”
	Oh yes.
	I do.
	After months of consistent, near-daily appearances, I do not desire to be treated as a perpetual alien.

	I was sitting on the porch of the Hanover Inn reading. It was a beautiful sunny afternoon, and I was waiting for my friend Will Smith to show up. We were going to go swim in the river.
	“Is that Ari Brown?”
	Oh god, who is it now.
	Ah, it’s my friend Mac and her friend Arielle Soriano. I had just gotten breakfast with Mac the day before.
	“Whatcha doin?” Mac and Arielle leaned up along the low fence separating the street from the rocking chairs by the Inn.
	“I’m just reading my book, waiting for Will. You guys just out and about?”
	We briefly chatted and caught up with each other, though it was mainly me and Arielle since I had seen Mac just the other day.
	“Alright, well we’ll let you go now.” They finished and waved to me as they started walking towards the crosswalk. They continued with their farewells:
	“See you later Ari Brown!” Mac yelled from the street corner.
	My thoughts came to a halt.
	“Why do you call me Ari Brown? A simple ‘Ari’ would suffice.”
	“Because you’re Ari Brown. You’re a celebrity.”

	Meh. Fuck her.
	Mac isn’t even her real name. Mac is simply her nickname; her real name is Alison McCarthy.
