		Many short stories in J. D. Salinger’s Nine Stories have at least two characters: a mature individual and a juvenile complement. Most people clearly delineate between parental love and sexual love, but J. D. Salinger’s short stories show that, through the awkward relationships between the mature individual and their juvenile complement and the previous and subsequent sexual tension, parental, familial love and romantic, sexual love are both very blurred. These conflated interpretations of love suggest that there is only one "kind" of love, of which people feel toward everyone to varying degrees.
	In "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," Sybil and Seymour have what appears to the reader as a very awkward meeting with serious sexual overtones. This is made apparent to the reader by Seymour’s attempts to placate Sybil ("That’s a fine bathing suit you have on. If there’s one thing I like, it’s a blue bathing suit." 12) and to get her to come closer ("Is it? Come a little closer." 12 in reference to what could very obviously have been a yellow bathing suit). Any benign nature the scene had was lost when Seymour "[takes] both of Sybil’s ankles in his hands." (12). While walking to the water, Seymour tells Sybil a story about "bananafish", commenting how "This is a perfect day for bananafish" (15). He proceeds to tell her about the tragic life of the phallic bananafish, in which they swim into a hole where they act like pigs and eat as many bananas as they can (15-16). This story contains many seemingly sexual references ("banana", "hole", the idea of gluttony when they eat as many bananas as they can), and when combined with the general flirting before Seymour tells the story ("‘Do you like wax?’ said Sybil", "‘Where do you live, anyway?’", "‘Do you like olives?’", 14-15), the story creates an uncomfortable situation for the reader. The sexual tension apparent to the reader is at its zenith when Seymour, controlling Sybil on a boogie board by her ankles in the water, sends her through a wave: "The water soaked Sybil’s blonde hair, but her scream was full of pleasure." (16). Seymour then takes Sybil’s foot and kisses the arch (17). Sybil’s rejection ("Hey!" on page 17) leaves the reader feeling awkward and embarrassed on behalf of Seymour.
	But nothing ever happens, and the benign nature that we struggled to hold onto – and eventually lost – stayed there the whole time. At no point did Seymour make a move on Sybil, nor she him. If read from a different perspective, each of these incidents would have been perfectly acceptable if Seymour had been Sybil’s father. Grabbing her ankles would have been fine, asking her to come closer would have been fine, and the strange story of the bananafish would have been more acceptable because he would have been merely trying to entertain Sybil. Most of all, the "scream of pleasure" would have been alright because he is just a father playing with his daughter in the water. Even kissing Sybil’s foot, one of the more sexual acts that came to fruition, would have been playful familial love expressed by a father to his daughter. That Seymour was completely ignoring his ready and willing wife (who was reading a magazine about sex in the hotel room, page 3) in the bedroom for some stranger’s six-year-old daughter would have been more than normal, as a father has a duty to play with and entertain his young children. But since Seymour is not the girl’s father, the entire interaction drifts toward instantly inappropriate. Sybil’s father is not there, and Seymour, a veteran of World War II, most likely wants to settle down as a father, as evidenced by his surrounding himself with benign interactions with young children (such as playing piano with Sharon Lipschutz, a toddler, page 12, and being with Sybil, page 11). Sybil has taken a liking to him (her jealousy and concern of him playing piano with another girl, p.13) and Seymour has taken a seemingly platonic liking to her, too. The stark flip that the scene can make by merely changing perspective is odd because it shows us what we do not want to see: that familial love and extrafamilial love are very close and often blurred.
	In contrast to an awkward blend of familial and romantic love, Salinger shows us a socially acceptable example in "Pretty Mouth and Green My Eyes".  In  "Pretty Mouth and Green My Eyes", Arthur calls Joanie a "grown child" (123) because he is looking for her (116), and we can tell that he no longer feels any romantic love for her since he was starting to get a divorce the previous summer (123). His search for his wife (and calling her a child) show that he is acting as her parent. If he didn’t care for her, then he would disregard her absence. Since Arthur doesn’t casually disregard Joanie’s absence, we can tell that he still loves her in a familial way. This is an example of how a romantic love conflates with a familial love in a socially appropriate way.
	In "For Esmé – with Love and Squalor," the narrator, who is married, finds himself having tea with a thirteen year-old girl, Esmé, with whom he had just earlier become enamored. This is clear from the text when he watches Esmé’s choir practice: "I scanned all the children’s face but watched on in particular, that of the child nearest me." (90). The narrator then proceeds to describe how her voice is the best ("It had the best upper register, the sweetest-sounding, the surest, and it automatically led the way." p.90). In this way, he describes his own infatuation with Esmé and leads the reader to suspect some kind of romantic undertones. On the other side of the tea table, Esmé is constantly trying to show herself to be older than she is. For example, she makes references to her hair and her looks: "‘My hair is soaking wet,’ she said. ‘I look a fright.’ She looked over at me. ‘I have quite wavy hair when it’s dry.’" (95). That Esmé is trying to show her value of her appearance says that she is trying to appear more mature than her age would suggest. Esmé’s vocabulary appears to exceed that of an average thirteen year-old would not use ("gregarious" 95, "She was an extrovert. Father was an introvert." 97, "intransically" 98, "posterity" 99, "squalor" 100, for example), which lends credence to her precociousness. Esmé also describes herself as having the ability to "write extremely articulate letters for a person [her age]." This, once again, shows that she is trying to present herself as having the qualities of someone older. It would appear that she is truly interested in the narrator, considering their face-to-face relationship only lasted 30 minutes ("... afternoon we spent in each other’s company on April 30, 1944 between 3:45 and 4:15 P.M." 113). The extreme attention to detail that Esmé exhibits in her letter to the narrator reveals her infatuation to its fullest: she counted the days since their tea exchange ("... forgive me for having taken 38 days to begin our correspondence" 112); she recounts the exact minutes and date of their afternoon ("... afternoon we spent in each other’s company on April 30, 1944 between 3:45 and 4:15 P.M." 113); and Esmé admits to "[thinking] of [him] frequently and the extremely pleasant afternoon [they] spent" (113). As readers, it is apparent to us that the tea conversation between a married G.I. and a thirteen year-old girl was peculiar, and the scene elicited the idea that Esmé was flirting with the narrator. It shows that Esmé’s infatuation is a romantic love, as evidenced by her seeking to change herself to be more to the narrator’s liking.
	But the narrator doesn’t truly reciprocate the same type of infatuation; his infatuation lasted only an afternoon, as noted by Staff Sergeant X’s clear lack of mention of Esmé and untouched letter collection: "... the writing table, which was a catchall for at least two dozen unopened letters and at least five or six unopened packages, all addressed to him." (105). He appears to most readily be taking the place of Esmé’s father since her father was "s-l-a-i-n in North Africa" (97). She describes her father as an introvert ("Father was an introvert" 97), which also describes the narrator in the shop (with his abrupt and terse responses). Esmé reveals that "[her] father wrote beautifully," which would accurately characterize the narrator who calls himself a "published short-story writer" (99). As a final token to show that the narrator, or Staff Sergeant X, is taking the place of Esmé’s father, she sends him her father’s watch in the mail for him to wear ("P.S. I am taking the liberty of enclosing my wristwatch..." 113). Esmé’s attitudinal shift toward the narrator was not instantaneous; it slowly changed over the course of their interaction, which left the narrator feelings of "regret and confusion" (101), naturally due to the mixed signals Esmé was sending. What started out as a romantic infatuation became a familial love after Esmé found out more about the narrator and was able to equate him to her father. This shows that love is a spectrum, with "romantic" on one end and "familial" on the other.
	"Down at the Dinghy" is a short story which includes an actual parent-child relationship. What is interesting to note, however, is the hypothetical retelling of the dinghy scene with the added twist that Boo Boo is not Lionel’s mother. While consoling her son, Boo Boo "put[s] a wild hand inside the seat of his trousers, startling the boy considerably, but almost immediately [withdraws] it and decorously tuck[s] in his shirt for him." (86). This is an ordinary action for a parent to take with a young child, and thus Boo Boo’s grooming of Lionel is representative of their familial love. Boo Boo disregards Lionel’s rejection, suggesting that she was never looking for a reaction in the first place and was merely trying to correct Lionel’s appearance. The familial love that is present between the two is taken for granted, however. When looked at through a different lens, that of Boo Boo not being a parent of Lionel’s, the scene becomes vastly inappropriate, demonstrating an awkward an unwelcome intrusion of romantic love akin to sexual assault. Boo Boo put a "wild" hand in Lionel’s pants (86) which clearly shows that the action was unsuspected and unwarranted. Boo Boo’s putting her hand down the back of Lionel’s pants "startl[ed] the boy considerably," (86) which highlights Lionel’s rejection of her action. Were Boo Boo not Lionel’s mother, the entire situation would not only be suspect but blatantly wrong. This is interesting because it shows that the personal boundaries, as defined by a person’s acceptance of familial or romantic love, are different depending on the context of the relationship, whether it is based on familial love or romantic love. One can imagine the same story between two romantically involved characters, and how that would play out. The personal boundaries here show the effect that different locations on the spectrum of love can have on the perception of an action.
	Although Salinger is the one who crafted the situations present in "A Perfect Day for Bananafish", "For Esmé – with Love and Squalor", and "Down at the Dinghy," they are not wholly unreal. Each of the actions that occur – the kissing of the foot in "Bananafish," the grabbing of the ankles, the reaching down the pants in "Dinghy" – has occurred before in a wholesome manner. With "Esmé", the narrator’s confusion of Esmé’s mixed signals suggests that love is a spectrum, ranging from romantic to familial. Salinger uses familiar situations, ones we have already judged, to stand upon as he changes our perspective to see not the quick judgement we have made of his stories but the unusual subject matter behind it. Salinger’s representation of these confusing situations is important because these realizations show that familial love and romantic love are on a single spectrum without an arbitrary division. As we see in "Dinghy," the division of what is right and wrong is left up to the people involved.