	I want to talk about two things: what this piece is and what this piece could be.
	First, you start off where you talk about connections. You are told that college is where you need to connect with people, and academic achievement is an undertone. I’d like to interject here and say that I desperately hope this is the case because my grades are certainly not going to get me anywhere. The points that I take away from your intro are hyper sociality, super sexualization, and extremes of self-exploration. You then begin to question your relationships with other people. You close with your first instance of the word “intimacy”, which I find rather appropriate.
	You recall then the time when you were pledging a fraternity and snuck into the Big House. Was that intimacy?
	Then you talk about how twenty years from now you will be instant friends with someone else who went to Michigan.
	Next you talk about what you want in a roommate.
	Finally, you talk about romance and love, starting with what you desire and then going into something of a story. This segues into how you are a recluse this year. You finish with describing how this is simply the first step in becoming intimate with others: becoming intimate with yourself.

	So what this piece is is a lot of discursive elements tied together with a bit of narrative. You do, however, have a topic, which is, in my opinion, the hardest part. More specifically, you have a GOOD topic. I found this topic to be the struggle for intimacy with others. You really hit this note perfectly in your last section (about romance and love) and end quite well. I feel like the other parts (the frat pledging and the bar moment) are also pretty good, but the narrative in them is… lacking? I’m not sure how to describe it. It’s like it’s been described rather than told. I want the tales to be recounted, even if one of them hasn’t happened yet. Bring me there. Slow time down. Speed it up. I think you can and should do the same for the third section, but it will be more difficult. You really do have to use narrative there as decoration, showing us your point about your reclusion and desire for intimacy (but, simultaneously, your satisfaction with focusing on yourself). I’d like to see a scene of you sitting down and eating a bowl of cereal in a salad bowl, milk and all. I want to hear the boringness. I want to taste, to smell the boringness of the honey nut cheerios as the fall into the bowl in the exact sound that every child in America has engrained in the very core of their brains. Invoke that Pavlovian response we all have. Make it ring true.
	Your introductory and concluding paragraphs are really quite good. The introduction introduces (hah) the topic, but never supplies a solution, instead giving us nothing but doubt. Finally, it all comes together in the conclusion. It’s really quite well done.

