Complex Numbers
Complex numbers are an integral part of mathematics, allowing solutions that would not appear to have a solution to have one. They are defined as having a "real" part and an "imaginary" part, though complex numbers are just as real as any other number.

	Ever since I lost my laptop charger — good riddance, that thing sucked — I have taken to working in the Shapiro Undergraduate Library, which students affectionately called "the UGLi". I feel like an actual college student now, which is cool, and it gives me an opportunity to hang out with friends who I don't see enough of.
	I was walking out the other night when I stopped in the bathroom to fill up my water bottle. White walls, clay-colored stalls. Yellow box. In the corner. It was deliberately intrusive.
	"PUT THEM IN! #yellowbox" read the top. It was a 13.25" x 7.5" x 4.5" plastic box covered with yellow construction paper. "PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE" was written on the front. There was a sign above it that instructed you to write your secrets on the supplied pieces of paper and to slip them in the box.
	I was pretty sure the secrets weren't supposed to be read, but there was something about them that beckoned me. It wasn't that I wasn't supposed to read them — I paid so little attention to that rule that it had no effect on me either way — but, rather, it was the nature of the secret that drew me to violate the confidentiality and privacy of the little folded slips of paper.
	It starts with the entirety of someone's life. Something happens, and they decide that the best move would be to hide it. So they do.
	And then the secret comes alive. It begins to hunger, deep inside a person's thoughts and actions, and it eats away at them.
	So they come face to face with the box, pen, and paper. All the barriers are gone. It'll only take a second. But maybe someone else is there in the bathroom, washing their hands. They look at you. You look at them. They know what you're about to do, and so there's a leap of faith where the writer goes forth, defies judgement, and exposes their secret.
	It's those leaps of faith that accumulate person after person after person until the box is full that pushed me over the edge to take one of the boxes and read through it.

	It started small, just reading a secret or two whenever I went to the bathroom. I'd wait until everyone had left the bathroom before tearing open the box and fishing around for a secret that wasn't just "I wish I were a cat". But I kept going. I started refilling my water bottle in the bathroom instead of by the water fountain because I wanted to read another secret. I all of a sudden had a reason to stay hydrated while studying in the UGLi.
	My favorite secret was that of some straight guy on campus: "I am straight but there is a gay guy in one of my classes and he is so smooth." He walks out of class chatting with some other guy, and they stop and just converse for a minute or two. They’re both pretty relaxed, neither appearing to try very hard to please the other. But the gay guy turns up the heat on their friendship, making a joke here, asking a question there, touching the straight guy’s elbow for just a second, just to prove his corporeality. Eye contact is made and held for maybe a second too long in places, but neither particularly care. They exchange phone numbers and decide to go get coffee in a few days. The straight guy is feeling pretty good about himself, having just had a solid interaction with someone, and then walks himself to his next class. Only later does he realize that he just got picked up: when have two guy friends ever gone out for coffee?
	The author probably joked about this with his friends, at first. He likely went to their coffee date and had a good time. He didn’t really know how to shut him down or even if he should because he kinda likes him and it’s not that bad and it’s just coffee and he’s touching me but it’s just my arm and it’s fine I do that all the time to my friends why is this any different? Somewhere, someone terribly confused is walking around campus.

	"You know, sometimes I feel like you and Chris are on opposite ends of a spectrum that I have to juggle." I wasn't sure whether what I had said made a whole lot of sense, but I was trying to offer a moment of sobriety for later digestion to Bob, my roommate and one of my best friends. Chris was one of our housemates who joined us just three months ago when the person he replaced went abroad for a semester. He was 24, worked most nights, and when he went out, he went out hard: the Charlie Sheen of our house.
	To set the stage, you've got bright sounds, loud lights, and dirty dancing. We — me, Bob, Chris, and Hannah, Bob's girlfriend — had just gotten into the Cantina bar above Charlie's on South University Street. Hannah was under 21, so I had drawn the appropriate stamp on her hand with a pen and then smudged it as necessary to look real. Hannah has a lot of anxiety about going out, and just persuading her to let us try to sneak her into the Cantina was an ordeal in and of itself. We ultimately had a lot of fun, but it took a lot of work to get there. Bob is similar to Hannah in a lot of ways when it comes to going out, trying new things, and putting himself on the line, although Hannah usually stops at the first in that list.
	This makes Bob and Chris something of opposites, and when we go out together, I generally have to help balance the impulse-driven and plan-driven worlds of Chris and Bob, respectively.
	Chris had momentarily stepped out when I dropped that line on Bob. I'm not sure why I decided that that was the perfect moment to tell Bob about how I use him as a moral weight. And he knew that he keeps me level, to a certain extent, and we joke about how even though I think that he makes me sociable to the general public, he really doesn't.
	"I'm wondering when you'll realize that I'm a real person and not a figment of your imagination."
	
	I knew I had hit rock bottom when I started thinking about those secrets after hours. Late one Saturday night, I hatched a plan to steal all of the yellow boxes and read all of the secrets. There was nothing to gain from it, there was nothing to learn. It was just that moment of connection by being the only person to read a secret that someone has. They set up this barrier, and I was able to move past that barrier — however unethically — and see parts of this person that made them human: their fears, their insecurities, their frailties.
	I woke up early on Sunday to go to the library. I packed my bags and walked over instead of biking. I usually ride my bike everywhere which is great for saving time. When I walk, there grow entire passages of time between engagements that didn’t use to be — shocking, I know. I wanted to walk to the library that day. I wanted to build the separation between the real world and my desires in the library. I wanted some one-on-one time with the people in the yellow boxes.

	I went into the first male bathroom I saw on the first floor and went to the sinks to get the yellow box. I reached out to grab —
	There was no yellow box.
	I looked around, I looked for signs of anything yellow, but there were none. It was as though the box had never existed.
	I went to the second floor.
		No box.
	Third floor.
		No box.

	"Hey, would you be able to do me a favor?" I walked up to a random girl sitting close to the bathrooms. She stopped what she was doing and looked up. "In the women's bathroom there should be a yellow box. Would you be able to get that for me?" She agreed to and returned empty handed.
	"No box."
	
	Finally, after approaching three people, I found what was ostensibly the last box in the UGLi on the second floor in the women's room. The girl who did my dirty work didn't immediately hand me the box:
	"What's this for?" She guarded the box under her arm.
	"I'm doing a project on the things people write in the box. It looks like they removed the boxes from the other bathrooms, so I think this is the last one left." I suppose I was technically only half-lying.
	"Oh, well good luck with your project, then." She handed me my prize.
	
	I grabbed a table. I set down my backpack and took off my jacket. I had literally dreamed of this moment the night before. Day dreamed, but still dreamed. I reread the words on the box, making extra note of the "PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE" label on the front, and then opened the top and dumped everything inside onto the table.
	They were just pieces of paper. There was nothing special about them. Some were on yellow tickets, others were on carefully cut scraps, and others, it seemed, were torn away on a spontaneous decision to put something in the box. I read through every scrap. I wanted to make sense of it all.

	I separated the scraps into piles: the serious and the fake. It was disappointing to see that some people didn’t take the yellow box seriously. I had come there to realize the people in the yellow box, and to see these jokes felt like a spit in the face. It made me feel like what I was doing had no purpose, that there was nothing to see here, that my mission was hopeless, that I should stop and go home.
	It was interesting to see that someone would make a joke, though, and put it somewhere where no one would see it. They thought about it, they laughed, and they wrote it down. Then they put their joke in the box. They put their joke — a gesture of language and communication intended for connection and other people — in a box that no one should open. Clearly, there was someone on the other end of their jokes that wasn’t obvious. Was it me?

	I didn't leave the UGLi after I read the secrets. I just wasted time. I sat on Facebook, doing the same thing I was just doing: reading short sentences people wrote and looking at their accompanying photos that were terribly crafted snapshots of their lives.
	Three friends of mine saw me and came over. The first thing they noticed was the yellow box next to me.
	"Is that the secret box from the bathroom?" The girl who said that was a little louder than she should have been. I opened my mouth to respond but —
	"You’re not supposed to take that!" She continued. I began to blush and wanted to look around, but "an innocent man doesn’t run." I might lack certain morals, but contrary to popular opinion, I do possess shame. Her volume was higher than I wanted and I could feel my feet sliding, sliding down a slippery slope and into the depths of the rabbit hole.
	"Let’s read them and try to figure out who they belong to!" the second girl chimed in, building on the emotional groundwork laid by her friend. I took her joke as my cue to publicly defend the people in the yellow box.
	I put my hand over the box, covering the aperture. I defended it. I coveted it. "No, you can’t. These are other people’s secrets. You can’t just read them." The hypocrisy was lost on me for a moment. "It’s different for me. I’m doing a project on them." Crisis Averted?
	"Wait, is that the box from the women’s bathroom?" A fourth party had joined the conversation, this time from the table I was sitting at. I didn’t know who she was. She seemed to have materialized out of nowhere.
	I looked over at her. She was sitting upright in her chair, hands on the edge of the desk. She looked focused. On her work? On me? Oh yes, it was definitely on me. Her eyes darted towards the yellow box.

	Ok, I'm on the deck of a pool. Indoors. Loud. Very loud. Let's try breathing.
	Nope, not happening. Diving mask on my face, and it's full of water. Can't see a thing. Can hardly see the deck beneath me. At least I'm facing down as I'm doing pushups.
	So I'm doing pushups. Alright.
	"alakjdsfoix"
	I... I... I think it's trying to communicate.
	Oh shit that's cold. There's water being poured on my head and back.
	"Brown, why did I pour water on you?"
	Do I look like a mind reader? Sir, I don't know. Am I in trouble or should I keep doing pushups some more?
	Hah, as if what I'm doing can even be called pushups. I am at the Naval Academy. Got in last night. It is a Special Forces training weekend. Simulated combat stress for 27 hours. We started 7 or 8 hours ago, and have been under constant stress and, sometimes, very literal weight.
	"Why am I pouring water on you?" he repeats himself.
	"Get straight!" Another male voice, this one closer and louder. I think they're talking about me. Ok, back straightened. Wow this hurts.
	Lather, rinse, repeat. I feel like this is unending, as though each repetition were another chance at redemption, but I never quite succeed.
	It's cool though because success is not the point of this exercise.
	
	"alsdjflkjd water!" No time for questioning the garbled sounds. My hour of doom is upon me.
	splashsplashsplash Are other people jumping in?
	splashsplashsplash Smart money says "yes".
	Hm. I still can't see very well.
	"Get your elbows above the water!"

	Tension rising.
		Arms hurt.
	Stress building.
		Legs hurt.
	I can't kick fast enough, hard enough, or well enough to stay afloat.
	Can't stay afloat. Tilt my head back. To float. Maybe. Just a little bit better.
	My nose is plugged with water.
		Dripping back.
			And down.
	I gag.
				Is this what drowning feels like?
	I know I said I wouldn't quit, but this is different, right?
	I gag.
				Am I drowning yet?
	I told myself I would only quit once I drowned.
				Close enough?
	I am going to be kicked out at some point. Ditch and dons will be my death.
	I gag.
				Water, water, everywhere.
				And all of it I drink.

	So many people in this library. All around me. I feel surrounded. In front of me are three people I know, one of whom is remaining silent, and to my right is a nervous, frightened girl whom I have set on edge.
	What am I supposed to say?
	"Yes."
		Quick, think of something else to say. Defend your unscrupulous hypocrisy!
	"I’m writing a paper on them."
		Ah, a veritable wordsmith.
	"But everything will remain anonymous."
	She’s looking at me still. Please, say something.
		Buy what I’m selling.
		Pick up what I’m putting down.
	She’s slouching now, this is good.
	"Oh, okay…" Finally.
	Don’t use the word "secrets": "I’m not transcribing what is written on these scraps."
		Well that makes her and her inner secrets seem like trash.
	"I’m just writing about the general theme of the secrets."
		Congratulations on failing to avoid the word "secrets".
	"Ah, I thought you were typing them all up."
	I wonder what would happen if I typed them all up?

	Too much water.
	I tear off my mask.
	GASP
	Four fingers in the air.
		Is this real? Did I just do that?
	I quit.

	My three friends left after that exchange. The girl to my right went back to work, possibly shaken in some unseen way. I removed myself from the area. It was tainted. It was too real. Something in that yellow box was alive, enough so for people to feel fear and stress over. It was a living being that had no feelings of its own, so it inspired emotion in others.
	I had to put the yellow box away. It was too dangerous. It was getting me into trouble. I didn’t want to, but I knew I had to. I wanted the other boxes. There were six out there, somewhere, and they weren’t calling my name. No, I was calling theirs.
	I walked up to the second floor again and found some girl sitting by the bathroom. I asked if she could do me a favor and put the yellow box I was holding back in the women’s bathroom. I entrusted her with the box — is this real? Did I just do that? — she looked as though I had handed her gold.	I have been thinking about being burned with a cigarette lately.

	Not about how I could do it, but just about what it’d be like.
	To take the cigarette in hand and pull it down to my forearm;
	to rotate my arm so that the soft, pale underside is exposed, away from hair;
	to put that cigarette to just an inch away from my skin—
		It barely looks lit, it doesn’t even feel hot.
	that rush as I know what’s about to happen.
		The stove is hot.
		Fire burns.
	The fear that overwhelms, that truly overwhelms, and grips ahold of me, and just doesn’t let go and then it’s all you can think and feel, and it’s too much and this is your chance your last chance to stop it and go back and move away from the edge from the brink of self destruction.
	To — without hesitating, for hesitation only serves to ruin — smoothly move the cigarette and push it into my skin, feel the nerves start firing, randomly, confusedly, with the sudden heat;
	to gently twist the cigarette and make sure that every nerve under the butt feels the heat of love the same.

	And then I hold it there.
	Not for long, but for about five or ten seconds. Just enough to bring the sensation, to welcome the sensation, to feel and endure the sensation, and then to let it go.
	A whole lifespan, fit neatly into my attention span.

	After I understand what’s happening, I pull it off. The skin is red and almost blistering. It’s searing, and the nerves are still firing. They’re less confused, now, and the pain is more consistent.
	I wouldn’t dip the wound in water or dirt or anything cold.
	I would just look at who did it to me,
								a girl.

	That’s how this fantasy goes: it’s always some girl who does it to me, who hurts me like this.
	I don’t really know what comes next, but I can only assume it’s love.	I’m really happy with myself.
	"Ya know, Dr. Hey, I’ve got some good news for you." Dr. Hey is my dentist.
	"Yeah? Whatcha got?"
	"Well you’re gonna be super proud of me."
	I’m super proud of myself. I feel like a grownup.
	"I’ve started brushing my teeth regularly."
	"…"
	"And none of that once-a-day bullshit that I’m sure your other patients do. We’re talking twice a day over here."
	Pretty sure Dr. Hey wouldn’t give a shit.

	Congrats, I’ve learned to wipe my ass. I have learned to behave like a basic human being. I am now presentable in basic western society. I now do what every other adult does.
	"Good news doc, I am fit to introduce myself to people without repelling them."

	Thank you, thank you everybody. It’s been a long transformation, and I’m glad I made it here today. I’d like to thank every dentist I’ve ever had, because invariably all of them have told me every single time that I needed to start brushing more. Mom, dad: thanks for supporting me by buying me toothbrushes and toothpastes. Without you, I would have to pay for them, and until my teeth start falling out, there’s no way I would shell out shekels for something that could easily be solved by the problem it causes.
	"Doc, I’m your boy. I’m the most responsible kid you’ve ever met. I schedule my own dentist appointments, I deal with insurance myself, and I brush my teeth twice a day as well. I pay bills, and I make money by selling my physical body to the military and an art school. There’s no stopping me now, I’m a death-dealing maniac with a toothbrush and some goddamn toothpaste.
	"I.
	"Am.
	"An adult."

	"But do you floss?"	I’d love to have a Polaroid camera.
	When a moment happens, it happens and then it’s gone. There are zero copies.
	If you have a camera with a negative, you have infinite copies.
	If you have a Polaroid, you have one copy. You have one copy to show and hold on to. It’s just as special as the original moment because it is just as unique.

	So naturally, there’s the question of what I’d shoot if I had a Polaroid camera. I’ve learned to spend money on experiences, not things. When I went to Finland, I decided that the landscape would be easily remembered, and it was the people that warranted photography. I’d take pictures of my housemates, my friends, my teachers, strangers, you—

	I’m trying to think of whether it’s important that you’re a sophomore.
	Because if you were a senior, the picture would be special to both of us, one last fling as we head off in separate directions.

	But because you’re a sophomore, you’re staying here.	Bob wants to do twenties.
	Well, Caleb told him to do so.
	It’s tough to watch because I’m concerned that Bob is going to ruin himself if he follows through with it. His hip can barely keep up with 40+ mi/week; doing multiple 20 milers will crush him.
	I’m not sure how to express how much this is a big deal, or how much running matters to Bob. And me.

	It starts with his key code for his housing card: 1642.
	1642 is the four-digit number Bob uses when he needs a security code of low import.
	1642 is what he thought about 5-6 times a day every day sophomore year.
	16:42 is his 5k PR. And it’s a nasty PR, too.

	It was sophomore year for Bob when he got that PR, so about 6 years ago. I’m not familiar with the details of the race. It wasn’t a culminating race of the season. It was just… a race.	Thanksgiving 2013. DC. Grandma is passed out on the couch — I think we finally got to her. After three, four, five days (I’ve lost count) of her badgering us to do this, to not do that, to go see some museums, we’re finally enjoying a moment of silence. The reprieve is only experienced by me and my cousin David, however; our cousins Drew and Allie just left an hour ago, and now we’re sitting here doing work. We’re writing, actually. He, a TV show; me, this.
	For our time in DC, we really did only two things: we would run for 20 minutes in the morning at a painfully slow pace mixed with a heavy amount of walking, and we would watch TV. We were lucky enough to have On Demand and some various HBO and Showtime shit, so we did what any good people would do: watched the shit out of some random show.

	Californication.

	That was the name of our first addiction, starting Wednesday afternoon. It’s a show about a writer who doesn’t write, his failed marriage, and how he fucks anything with two legs. This would be an appropriate place to say that he fucks his way in and out of trouble.
	I mean, the dude’s a writer. He writes semi-to-fully-autobiographical pieces. He lives in a shamble of an apartment, is an alcoholic, fucks an ungodly amount of women, is constantly hitting on his ex-wife — who receives it well 80% of the time — and holds his daughter’s heart as she holds his. He’s a writer in the most romantic sense of the term: completely fucked up, a womanizer, a drunk, and living a life on the verge of ruin. He is Hemingway. He is O. Henry. Edgar Allen Poe. F. Scott Fitzgerald. More than that, he’s an expatriate of his home that is the Big Apple, instead living in Los Angeles.
	And I want his life. I want everything he has. I was sold at first on a visceral level: money, drugs, women, freedom, writing.
	I want money to do things. To buy things. To give away. There’s a quote from the show Castle, where the main character (eponymously named Castle), a filthy rich writer, says that money buys him the freedom to do what he wants.
	Drugs: the mark of depravity. The telltale for adventure and misdeeds, dark paths and strangers.
	Infinite one-night-stands with girls whose names he doesn’t even remember. Who doesn’t love being adored?
	Freedom, the sense of being in charge of your own life.
	Like, look to my left: cousin David. David lives in LA. David is a jack-of-all-trades in the industry of moving pictures, be it movies or TV shows. David lives in the guest house of his friend. David uses recreational drugs. David doesn’t date a lot of women, but David has freedom. He has true freedom to do whatever he wants: in a couple weeks, he’ll be living in New York City for a couple of months to work on a movie there. Then maybe he’ll move back to LA; things are very fluid in his life.

	But then, in the middle of an argument with his wife when she suggests that he go see a shrink about his issues, the writer in Californication spins around and raises a thoughtful finger in the air in concert with his volume: "I’m a writer, I don’t give that shit away for free!"
	Huh.
	Well that’s an interesting take on it.

	I started seeing a psychologist again. Two weeks ago was my first session. The dude’s name is Jean-Paul Pegeron, and although his accent does not betray him, that man is as French as they come: a portrait of Paris on his wall, his soft voice, his first and last names.
	I’ve been struggling to talk in there, though.
	On the one hand, I’ve been so used to having information somewhat forced out of me, teased out of me over the course of months and years that being open with it, even though that I am, is still very… strange. Odd. I’m worried that I’m trying to bleed for him, but I’m not actually hitting a vein. I bitched out some girl in an English class for that once. She did it with pride, more of orgueil, to put the extra emphasis on the negativity of her pride.
	And on the other hand, I feel like I just don’t have anything to talk about, thanks to writing. When I’m sitting there in the chair, facing the quiet, aging man to whom the years have only been so kind, I feel like I’m telling a story. Or maybe I literally am, reciting verbatim what I had written down maybe one week or five months before.

—

	We had to stop watching the show after the first season. We were being yelled at for watching too much television, but we didn’t give a fuck about that. This was a visceral, soulful plea to not watch any more episodes.

—

	The fast lane was made just for me. And it’s good that everyone’s getting used to hearing that they’re not special. While they all set down their dreams and ambitions, I’ll appreciate the eased congestion.	Thanksgiving 2013. DC. Grandma is passed out on the couch — I think we finally got to her. After three, four, five days (I’ve lost count) of her badgering us to do this, to not do that, to go see some museums, we’re finally enjoying a moment of silence. The reprieve is only experienced by me and my cousin David, however; our cousins Drew and Allie just left an hour ago, and now we’re sitting here doing work. We’re writing, actually. He, a TV show; me, this.
	For our time in DC, we really did only two things: we would run for 20 minutes in the morning at a painfully slow pace mixed with a heavy amount of walking, and we would watch TV. We were lucky enough to have On Demand and some various HBO and Showtime shit, so we did what any good people would do: watched the shit out of some random show.

	Californication.

	That was the name of our first addiction, starting Wednesday afternoon. It’s a show about a writer who doesn’t write, his failed marriage, and how he fucks anything with two legs. This would be an appropriate place to say that he fucks his way in and out of trouble.
	I mean, the dude’s a writer. He writes semi-to-fully-autobiographical pieces. He lives in a shamble of an apartment, is an alcoholic, fucks an ungodly amount of women, is constantly hitting on his ex-wife — who receives it well 80% of the time — and holds his daughter’s heart as she holds his. He’s a writer in the most romantic sense of the term: completely fucked up, a womanizer, a drunk, and living a life on the verge of ruin. He is Hemingway. He is O. Henry. Edgar Allen Poe. F. Scott Fitzgerald. More than that, he’s an expatriate of his home that is the Big Apple, instead living in Los Angeles.
	And I want his life. I want everything he has. I was sold at first on a visceral level: money, drugs, women, freedom, writing.
	I want money to do things. To buy things. To give away. There’s a quote from the show Castle, where the main character (eponymously named Castle), a filthy rich writer, says that money buys him the freedom to do what he wants.
	Drugs: the mark of depravity. The telltale for adventure and misdeeds, dark paths and strangers.
	Infinite one-night-stands with girls whose names he doesn’t even remember. Who doesn’t love being adored?
	Freedom, the sense of being in charge of your own life.
	Like, look to my left: cousin David. David lives in LA. David is a jack-of-all-trades in the industry of moving pictures, be it movies or TV shows. David lives in the guest house of his friend. David uses recreational drugs. David doesn’t date a lot of women, but David has freedom. He has true freedom to do whatever he wants: in a couple weeks, he’ll be living in New York City for a couple of months to work on a movie there. Then maybe he’ll move back to LA; things are very fluid in his life.

	But then, in the middle of an argument with his wife when she suggests that he go see a shrink about his issues, the writer in Californication spins around and raises a thoughtful finger in the air in concert with his volume: "I’m a writer, I don’t give that shit away for free!"
	Huh.
	Well that’s an interesting take on it.

	I started seeing a psychologist again. Two weeks ago was my first session. The dude’s name is Jean-Paul Pegeron, and although his accent does not betray him, that man is as French as they come: a portrait of Paris on his wall, his soft voice, his first and last names.
	I’ve been struggling to talk in there, though.
	On the one hand, I’ve been so used to having information somewhat forced out of me, teased out of me over the course of months and years that being open with it, even though that I am, is still very… strange. Odd. I’m worried that I’m trying to bleed for him, but I’m not actually hitting a vein. I bitched out some girl in an English class for that once. She did it with pride, more of orgueil, to put the extra emphasis on the negativity of her pride.
	And on the other hand, I feel like I just don’t have anything to talk about, thanks to writing. When I’m sitting there in the chair, facing the quiet, aging man to whom the years have only been so kind, I feel like I’m telling a story. Or maybe I literally am, reciting verbatim what I had written down maybe one week or five months before.

—

	We had to stop watching the show after the first season. We were being yelled at for watching too much television, but we didn’t give a fuck about that. This was a visceral, soulful plea to not watch any more episodes.

—

	The fast lane was made just for me. And it’s good that everyone’s getting used to hearing that they’re not special. While they all set down their dreams and ambitions, I’ll appreciate the eased congestion.	It feels awful.
	Heat like you’ve never seen.
	Humidity like you’ve never felt.
	And misery.
	The misery of the conditions just make me so uncomfortable. And it’s not like I’m running around and working out — hah, at least not yet — so I feel like I’m unjustified in hating it to the degree I do.

	That’s what it feels like to lie in anticipation of this fucking EOD summer training.

	It’s not training. It’s an audition. I’m auditioning for a part in the play that is the Naval Special Operations community.
	Cool, huh?

	My dad drove me to the airport this morning.
	"You excited for it?" He asked me.
	"Scared shitless."
	"Scared? —"
	"Well, I’m really excited for it, but I also am just so nervous for it."
	"What are you nervous about?"
	"I mean, if they were throwing us into the unknown, I’d be fine. I can do that. I am good at dealing with the unknown. I value my perspective and think I have enough depth and breadth of experience to successfully negotiate anything they can reasonably throw at us."
	"So what’s the problem?"
	And therein lies the question, problem, and solution.

	I’ve got all these tools.
	I can wield them well enough.
	If Uncle Sam wants me to run, I’ll run. I’ll run far. I’ll run fast. I’ll play that game all day long. I may not be fast among runners, but among the muggles of the military I can hold my own and lay down the law.
		But that’s not even entirely true.
	I struggle to showcase my running during the PST, the grand fitness test that we have to do. The Physical Screening Test.
	For some reason likely attributed to lack of fitness, swimming, pushups, situps, and pullups tire me to exhaustion. Ne väsyvät minut uuvuksiin.

	I swear I’ve got the tools, though. Even though I get caught up with whether or not I can blow the PST out of the water or not, it doesn’t really matter what happens.
	This is no dialogue.
	There is no question for me to debate with myself.
	Time to sack up and fuck shit up.

	It starts with my languages.
	I studied Esperanto for a time and now speak English, French, and Finnish. I can barely form a coherent sentence in Esperanto, my French speech-production is too often poor, and my Finnish is clearly lacking judging by my reading of Harry Potter ja Viisasten Kivi earlier today.
	But that doesn’t matter.
	The point is that I spent several hours today reading books in three different languages, even using one to study a fourth.
	No one else is doing that.
	I carried myself through foreign countries and languages and used my command of language to not just survive but thrive.
	And no, dear 7th grade math teacher, I no longer confuse command with mastery.

	Next is my running.
	An example of mediocrity and much effort over years to deliver minimal results.
		I swear I’m only good at useless things.
	I am at the point where, inevitably, we will have to go for a distance run with an EOD team this coming trip.
	And I will do it with such comfort and ease as has not been seen for quite a time.
	Among my people — runners — I am poor, but among others I am rich.
	I don’t need to be spectacular when putting it all together in the performance that is the PST.
	I have shown and will show that I am not Pavlov’s failure.
	I can be trained.
	Repeated failure will lead to success.

	And look what I’m doing now — I’m writing.
	I was always jealous of those kids who went to Dartmouth.
		I still am.
	They could write like music sings.
	And they could run, jump, and throw like Olympians.
	They are some of the most well-rounded people out there. They can do anything and everything.
	This is my meager attempt at fulfilling both what I want to be as well as what the world needs from a useful citizen.
		Jack of all trades, master of none.
	I will take the exile of mastery as consequence of utility.

	It ends with my mustache.
	Poor and blond and thin.
	It is my pièce de résistance.
	It represents who I am in the context of the military.
		Shave that shitstache, Brown.
	Nope. Not gonna happen. It stays. It is the last bastion of rebellion available to Sailors.
	And I want the world to fucking know.

	You know, you spend so many years trying to blend in, but when service selection, job hunting, elections come, you end up trying your hardest to stand out from the crowd.
	My mustache, an antique from a more civilized era of gangrene and battlefield amputations, is my simple statement of who I am and what I possess.
	Half Prefontaine, half General Burnsides.

	And you bet your fucking ass, I can grow a mean pair of mutton chops.

	—

	This is as much an audition for them as it is for me. I want the EOD team to show me why they’re the best.
	Why they’re the smartest.
	The nicest.
	The most polite.
	Everyone in the military is amped up on violence. It’s too easy to solve problems with testosterone, and the side-effects are brushed under the rug. They practice some serious "mind over matter" shit with regards to that, hoping to just will them out of existence.

	We’re gonna land in about two hours. EODC(EWS) Gentry is gonna pick me up, roughly 9:00PM local. I hope we can go get a burger or something, I’m fucking starving.

	—

	Probably the scariest part of this whole trip is the traveling in uniform.
	First impressions mean a lot.
	There are a lot of rules to how to wear this uniform, and everyone on base is prepared to pick me apart and tear me to shreds. If I show up looking ever-so-slightly like shit, what will that mean to them?
		I’m not wearing my shirt stays.
	And that was a conscious decision. A decision to disregard the rules and play my own game "because it would be more comfortable to travel."

	So back to the question, the problem, and the answer:
	It’s not the unknown that scares me. Fuck naw, I got that shit on lock.
	It’s the known.
	These rules that I can’t seem to follow.
	These rules that I seem to only cursorily know.
	And it’s not like they’ll be wrong for pointing them out.
		"Why didn’t you follow the rule exactly? It was written clear as day."
	I got nothin’.

	—

	Why do you want to be an EOD Officer?
	Good question.

	Well the first question is why I want to be in the Navy. And that’s because they Navy plays in all fields. And, retrospectively, they have the best work method. I come from a Navy lineage, so there’s some obvious bias, but I like to pretend that it’s irrelevant.

	The next question is why I want to be an officer. And it’s simple: I specialize in systems. I specialize in managing environments that organize information, responsibility, accountability, and authority. I am a people-person (as much as that sends me down the "Office Space" route) and a computer scientist and programmer. Bomb disposal and submarines are cool, but system management is more so.
	I also want to lead. I enjoy responsibility and authority.

	The final question is why I want to do EOD.
	…
	I guess it’s because I want to work with the people who care enough to sit me down and ask about my hobbies. I want to work with people who ask me why I want to be an EOD officer, and when my answer isn’t good enough, they tell me to think of a better answer and get back to them.
	Running, jumping, shooting, and swimming are all fine and dandy, but I recognize that the military takes all things fun and ruins them — plus, you know, this job won’t consist entirely of playing with big toys for big boys.
	I’m in this game for what it actually is: leading, navigating, and managing systems and situations.

	I don’t want to be a SEAL. I don’t want to live a life of solely killing and apprehending people. I am not a weapon; I am a tool.
	I don’t want to be a nuke. A nuke would not fully utilize what I have to offer.	Bob ran down the stairs into the pregame with his coat and hat on:
	"Attention party-goers: who wants to go watch ten minutes of a women’s club hockey game. There will be no fans and minimal checking." I knew that there had to be a girl at the other end of this.
	"Bob, pray tell — why is this happening."
	"There is a girl—" That was all the justification I needed.
	"Give me 30 seconds to grab a coat and we’re off."

	We ended up staying at the game for an hour talking to Bob’s crush, Kate. As we finally left after the game had been over for 15 minutes, after the parents of the opposing team had left, after they turned the lights out on us, we ran into Kate’s roommate who played on the hockey team, Remy.
	"Kate, I’m gonna head home and shower." Remy disregarded me and Bob.
	"Are you gonna go to Rick’s afterwards?" Rick’s American Café is the local club where people go when they’re really drunk so they can act trashy with other drunk people who are acting trashy.
	"Hell yeah, and if I see them there… I’m gonna deck her."
	The conversation was hard to follow, but it was sufficiently violent.
	"Wait," I chimed in "who is this person and why do we hate them?"
	"Doesn’t matter, they’re just some chick who’s mad at me about some boy."
	"… punch…" Remy animated her words.
	"… deck…" Remy kept going.
	"… kill…" She was not afraid of conflict.

	Wow, this girl is filled with hatred. She is angry. She must hate everything with a pulse; she just got done playing hockey defenseman, so of course she’s violent.
	I wonder what she’s doing for Valentine’s Day.

	I feel bad because all I seem to write about is girls.
	I’ve mentioned Bob offhandedly in a few essays before. He was always a side character in the stories which were about other people. I never felt bad, because the stories were never about him. They were about these random people in my life, minor characters who appeared and disappeared the same. Honestly, they probably read the same.
	Bob wrote an entire essay about me for his class last year.
	An entire paper.
	3000 words, 8 pages, uncountable drafts and revisions.
	Even Henry is writing about me. Not as much as Bob did, but I apparently have more than a cameo in his paper.

	There shouldn’t be any doubt that I thought about Remy on the uptick and downtick of every hour. Our conversation lasted 20 seconds; I’m pretty sure she doesn’t even remember meeting me, let alone my name. But I can’t put her down.
	Nor do I want to.

	There’s a quote I was told from a nice young girl who — whoulda thunk — hates me now. It belongs to her originally, but I remembered it because I felt like it was such a compliment at the time:
	"See, your problem is that you collect people. You go around and find new and interesting people to do new and interesting things to do. And then you put them away and move on to next one. But it’s not like you ignore the people you’ve already met, you just… keep going. You never stop. You never can just be happy with what you have."
	Now, I’m not so sure.

	I’m looking over everything I’ve written.
	Here’s a poem about Caili Dalian.
	Here’s my attempt to draw two different conclusions from the same set of events on my EOD cruise: did I want to go EOD or not?
	There are more: a piece about Alissar shutting me down, which I guess is really about successful relationships (Bob wrote a piece on the same subject but about the success instead of the failure); one about some random American I met in Paris; here’s one about Masha, my ex-girlfriend; and another; oh look, a couple thousand words about the job that doesn’t want me. For twenty-something pieces, it feels like they’re endless.
	And here’s an essay I wrote for class about what’s real and what’s not. The "Yellow Boxes" paper. In it, I stole boxes full of anonymous secrets from the library and studied them. I tried to see if there was any sense I could make from them before I realized that they were just scraps of paper: their corporeality came from the beholder.

	And here’s a poetic analysis I did of a Finnish poem. It happens to be my favorite poem because of the promise of a future: Kuutamo, by Risto Rasa. I was inspired to write an analysis while reading Nabokov’s unfollowable Pale Fire which is itself a poetic analysis. My analysis fits the theme of my writing yet again by being about the country, tongue, and subject which forsake me: Finland, Finnish, and literature.
	Finland.
	Finland.
	Finland.
	On my last night in Finland, I met this girl named Ane. Anetta Lukjanova. A very pretty girl who spoke four languages and lived la vie bohème. We talked for three hours that night and then met up for coffee the next morning. She helped me get to the airport. We exchanged contact information and occasionally talk. Rarely. We rarely talk. She now lives in London with some boy, some English kid who also lives la même vie bohème.

	I had a dream last night that I kissed her.
	It felt almost real.
	It felt good enough.

	About halfway through my Junior year of college, 5 years too late, I realized that I’m only productive in the dark. And it doesn’t matter if it’s dark outside; I need it to be dark inside. So now that’s how I do my work: in my room, alone, with the blinds pulled shut and the light turned off.
	But I hate being productive. Being productive, while great for making others happy, leaves me in a daze where I’m unable to socialize with anyone.
	"Hey Ari, did Theresa give you money for my hockey tickets today in class?"
	To quote Bob, "it’s like having a Skype conversation": reactions are always delayed.
	The pregnant pause is my cue to deliver a response.
	"Oh, right. Uh, no. Yes. No. Definitely not. She did not pay me."
	It all comes down to conflicted priorities, with academics and my social presence jockeying for first.

	My best work is done when my academics and my social presence are not at odds with each other. My dream job is one where I just shake hands and meet people, something that is about me and my interactions with other people. Wouldn’t being a Senator be fun? or an executive somewhere? a manager? a teacher?

	This was not my first rodeo as a teacher. I did a stint for a month and a half in 2012, which showed me that teaching was a fun possible career choice, but this was my first time as the star of the classroom; middle schoolers were easy to impress.
	I had Mrs. Desaulniers’s 6th graders on the first day. Even though I had gone to the same middle school myself, I had never been in this classroom before. Mrs. Desaulniers had been my 6th grade science teacher as well, so it made for an interesting point of connection with the students. I walked in on the first day wearing jeans, a button down, a tie, and a blazer. I wanted to present myself as formal and in charge, but not unapproachable.
	They were talking amongst themselves pretty loudly. They had all gotten themselves seated, and I had picked up my folder of attendance sheets.
	"Good morning, class. My name is Mr. Brown. Mrs. Desaulniers is sick today, and unfortunately you have me." If there’s one thing I can do, it’s be loud.
	"I am going to call out your name and you are going to do three things: tell me your name, tell me your favorite movie, and tell me an interesting fact about yourself. Facts must be interesting and may not be repeated." I did this for every class, and most students said "Pitch Perfect" if they were a girl or "Pulp Fiction" if they were a guy.
	I consumed their fun-facts and memorized useless information about them. I’d see them later on in the halls or in a different class and I’d ask them to expand upon their favorite movie, sports team, what’s their second favorite, or how they could possibly enjoy the movie Battleship. I mean, seriously, words fail me. It was just that bad.
	I held this routine for every class I taught, doing the 6th grade twice, 7th grade once, and 8th grade once. Everyone responded favorably to it, and I developed a sizable fan-base. Kids went home and told their parents. They told their friends. They’d see me on the street and yell out their car windows "MR. BROOOOOWWWWNNNN!!!!!!!!!" I felt like a rockstar, and it was cool to see how pervasive not my influence, but my presence was.

	Eight grade was an interesting classroom. The other grades were loud and impressive when I first rolled in; the 8th grade classroom was quiet for me. You could tell — you just knew, like a scent in the air — that they were plotting some kind of mischief or madness.
	They would sit there, entertaining themselves. The guys no longer look like they’re 6 years old; they’re getting bigger and stronger. The students have phones. Laptops. Things to do. Attitude.

	We were reading books during the independent reading time that was set aside for each class. I, being the teacher, did not have to read. I was on my laptop. I was on Facebook. Because that’s what I do.
	One of the kids looked up from his book.
	"I found his Facebook!" he yelled to any and all who would hear it.
	What? What does that even… Oh dear.
	In flooded 14, 15, at least 20 friend requests from kids whose older siblings I maybe knew peripherally or who maybe took the bus with me six years prior. I’d be lying if I said I didn’t enjoy it. They were so excited, too: so much chatter, complaints about my listed profession ("Persian Nightclub Owner"), people making fun of my pictures — I was almost sad that I had to reject them all and tighten my privacy settings.
	One of the girls — who kept coming back and trying to hang out with me during my free periods instead of going to class — keeps friending me every month. And every month I turn her down. I wonder how long until she forgets about me?
	It feels bad to deny these people any chance to speak to me again, but it derives from professional obligations. And besides, I’m still on the sub list; I might see them again one day, and they’re unlikely to forget me anytime soon; no one forgets a substitute.

	I went into the high school a couple days later to teach there. I was taking roll for a small class of only seven students; all of the others were out on a field trip for a different class.
	"Are you Ari Brown?" a girl with vaguely familiar last name spoke up.
	Why, uh, yes, I am.
	"Did you teach at the middle school on Monday?"
	Why, uh, yes, I did.
	"Christo is my brother. He was talking about you nonstop."

	I was finally famous.



	I was sitting in her bean bag chair underneath her bed. She was sitting at her desk doing work. I had grown fond of the idea of doing work in her room — despite that semester being my lowest-ever GPA — so I was reading my physics textbook to better understand how the fuck I could suck so hard at something so simple and straightforward.
	"We should do something tonight." I first slammed my book shut to get Masha’s attention.
	"Like what?"
	"Let’s raise hell and worry sheep." Masha was my first girlfriend.
	"Right, but I have soooo much work to do. I have to finish studying for P-Chem, I have to make flashcards, I have to update my resume, I have to…"
	I didn’t really listen beyond that because I had heard this laundry list before many times. Her life’s work was about carving out of this mountain of work a stone of a perfect GPA.

	"Well, maybe, what if — and this is a big ‘if’ — you hypothetically — theoretically — you stepped out of reality and for a night went out and caused trouble and got arrested." None of those things were her cup of tea, but a man can hope. In fact, it wasn’t even hope. It was about asking for a mile and hoping she’d give an inch.
	"I have an assignment due on Tuesday. I can’t this weekend."

	I get it, I do. I was always able to trick her into watching a movie with me, messing around, and falling asleep at one in the morning. There’s something considerably less intimidating about that that I, the epitome of an extrovert, just wouldn’t understand. It’s a quiet beauty, a subtle siren that perhaps to her felt like an escape from reality.
	I would stop pestering her after she gave her excuse. I wanted to go places with her, but I wanted her to want to go, I didn’t want her to go simply because I wanted to; it is not supposed to be a gift to me.
	So there we would sit, entwined underneath her lofted bed in a cramped cave of pillows, watching Finding Nemo, a movie of anthropomorphic fish, bright colors, and high contrast. Her room on those nights was the perfect environment for doing work, yet here I was watching a movie. I sacrificed my opportunity to see and meet people — with her — to do nothing. To cuddle and caress, I guess, because she couldn’t take 3 hours to go out and get dirty and meet some strangers for a night. Watch out, if you get too far away from your homework, the separation might feel genuine.
	I greatly admired her work ethic and the results she earned. She motivated me to study and do work, and although, ironically, I got the worst grades in my life that term, I certainly learned how to get good grades from her.

	"Would you trade your grades for a social life?" I asked Bob once. Twice. Several times. And not just him. Everyone.

	Checking your grades at the University of Michigan is no easy task. You have to log in and click through four different pages and wait for like three different systems to load at their dreadfully slow pace. There is no accident in finding out your grades; it is a conscious and deliberate decision.
	It was about 11:00PM on a Sunday night over winter break, just a few days ago. I knew I had blown it in two of my finals for two of my classes, but the other classes were still up in the air.
	I curled up underneath my blanket — grades were a touchy subject for me.
	I went to the Wolverine Access page.
	I went to the Student Business page.
	I logged in.
	I waited.
	I was taken to this big grid of links and information, most of which, I’m pretty sure, don’t pertain to me. I swear to God, they change up the order of the links every time I visit the page.
	I clicked on the link that said "View Unofficial Transcript".
	I selected the current term.
	I waited for the page to load.
	I scrolled down.

	I don’t think I would trade my grades for a social life. I think that’s why I like to do my work in the dark when no one else is around.

	3.769.

	What.

	My highest term GPA to date, college or high school.

	There’s a story I could tell about some guy who refused to play by the rules, and when faced with a dilemma he would choose the third option. But the details of the story aren’t relevant, neither is the subject matter, nor the author, nor even the verified existence of the story. All that matters is that it planted the seed of an idea.
	I thought that story was pretty cool because it gave me hope that I could have my cake and eat it too.

	Go for gold, shoot to kill, play to win.
	I finally found an excuse for my insatiable appetite. As much as I look back and see misery-filled kismet, it’s strange to note that I only got here because of Masha.

	I got to avoir le beurre et l’argent du beurre, but I shouldn’t have. I can stop running away from my problems and double over laughing out of breath with my hands on my knees, breath fogging in the cool air, and revel in my victory.
	But I shouldn’t have gotten away, and it’s only getting colder until I learn how to do it right.

	I think she shreds my mind and conscience because she was the first person I explicitly and instantly cut from my life. People had done that to me before, and it sucked, but I was not the one doing the excision. It’s a different kind of sadness when you are not the victim, but I am pretty sure that that’s what I wanted to feel.
	Want to feel.

	Maybe that’s not even the issue.
	To think of it, I’ve explicitly and instantly cut another person from my life. She would be the second, Masha being the first, and her excision never left me scarred. I suppose I am not Pavlov’s failure; sharper knives leave smaller scars.
	Consent for something is very simple: if one person does not want to proceed, everything stops. Game over. End of story. No further questions. But things rarely end that cleanly, and people tend to get frustrated when you cite "consent" as sufficient reason to end something. No. Your reason sucks. It doesn’t count. Yes it does. No it doesn’t.

	Erica Dombro. We "dated" for a couple months, probably around three, and had a lot of fun together.
	"So Henry called us boyfriend and girlfriend tonight to our faces." We were lying in bed together when I brought this up.
	"Yeah."
	"So are we boyfriend and girlfriend?"
	"I don’t know."
	I had played this game before, so I knew she might say something like "No, because you haven’t asked me out yet." I gave her space to do so; she didn’t.
	"Well, would you like to be?"
	"I don’t know."
	Oh, ok. Umm, I’m not sure what’s next?
	"Well, are we exclusive?" Goooood, good. Back it up slowly until you find the sweet spot.
	"I don’t know." Tickle-me-Elmo over here knew only one line.
	"Well do you want to be?"
	"I don’t know." She was incapable of saying anything else.

	This was quickly getting aggravating.

	"Well I’d kinda like to be."

	Eventually, after performing that script three separate times, I decided that the uneasy feeling it gave me was enough of a reason to end things. She came over and I told her I didn’t want to continue things. It was not a simple or clean cut, but rather one that took place over two weeks. I ended things, we found ourselves back in my bed — which is admittedly just a carpeted floor and some sheets — and then a week later I finally mustered up the courage to end things for good. I ended things, but it was not good enough for her. Things were tense.
	I knew what I had to say: nothing. I wanted to meet up with her and just listen. Or just look attentive, because my job was to shut up, and any listening I was going to do would just be gravy, maybe taking home an extra lesson or two for the next time I tried to date a freshman six months out of high school.

	We met in the stairwell of the UGLi, right next to the walkway to Hatcher.
	"Do you want to start?" I offered her the first blows because I could tell that this was not going to be pretty. I had a simple job: to not speak, to nod, and to agree. If she says I committed 9/11, I say I flew both planes. Which would be ridiculous, of course: I can’t admit to anything if I keep my mouth shut.
	Which, of course, didn’t fucking happen. To my credit, I was good for most of it, until I decided to point out and elucidate her selective memory. Voices were never raised, thankfully:

	"So I guess that’s it," I said. I was sitting on the steps below her because I wanted to make sure she felt empowered. "Shake hands and leave amicably?" I must’ve been high if I thought that we were gonna be friends after that.
	"No, but I’d like a hug."
	I didn’t want to give her a hug because I knew it would be terrible. I knew it would send the wrong message and would cheapen the value of one.
	I visibly hesitated.
	"Actually," she continued. "I’ll get one from someone else."
	I held my hand out again for a good ole conservative handshake.
	"No. I’m not touching you."

	Oh.

	Erica disappeared from my life for a while — forever, really — and I see her only in the occasional large group event for MRun, the university running club. We’re somewhat pleasant, but I can tell she has a special amount of hatred saved for me, judging from how quickly she ends conversations and how her words exist almost solely to highlight my shortcomings. It’s always best to simply give her the time of day and move on.
	I’ll tell you what, though: I have never looked back on any of the events, neither the relationship, nor the breakup, nor the aftermath; I got some of my highest grades when I was dealing with her.
	Alissar texted me at about 4:00PM on Thursday. I was at NROTC, so I had to type out a response on my phone hidden underneath my cover sitting in my lap.
	Tin tin Thursday? By specifying the day, it made it sound like it wasn’t obviously today. Grice’s maxims of conversation were at play here.
	Tonight? What time? I had shown up to a party of hers the weekend before, and unfortunately, I was a week early; it was possibly one of the most embarrassing moments of my life.
	Undetermined haha I have to do laundry first.
	Lemme know when I should come over and I’ll be there.

	***

	"Hi, welcome to Lena’s, my name is Alice, how can I help you?"
	It was February second, and I was calling Lena’s, the superb upscale restaurant on Washington and Main.
	"Hi, my name is Ari. Could I make a reservation for February 14th?"
	"Sure, what time?"
	"6:00PM."
	"Excellent, can I get a name for the reservation?"
	"Brown."
	"Alright, have an excellent day Mr. Brown. We look forward to seeing you on February 14th at 6:00PM."
	I didn’t have a date. I had a few ideas of who I wanted to ask, but mostly I wanted to make do a little bit of preparation. Get things done ahead of time, you know? Get all my ducks in a row.

	***

	At 10:30PM, she told me to come over. I was at Charley’s when she texted me.
	"Alright man, that’s my summons." We talked as I slowly finished the melonball Karry had ordered me.
	I let my phone sit in my pocket.
	I let the conversation carry on.
	I don’t get to hang out with Karry too often, so I wanted to make sure I didn’t leap out of the chair as soon as some girl half my age texted me.

	The waitress came by to collect our now empty glasses.
	"Can I get two shots of Maker’s Mark?" Karry asked the waitress.
			"No man, I can’t, I gotta be sober."
	"Two Maker’s Mark?" the waitress said to him.
			"Dude, if I show up any more drunk, she’ll hate my ass."
	"Yes, that’d be great, thank you." Karry sent her off, my protests falling on deaf ears.
	"Alright, looks like we’re doing shots."

	I got there pretty late, at around 11:00PM, and given that I had to be up at 5:30AM on Friday for NROTC, I knew that going to bed by 1:00PM would not demand a low price from my body.
	The place was rampant with people, so we all just hung out, listened to music, talked, and played pong. I am always a bit nervous in her house — or in any house like that — because their bohemian lifestyle just sets me so on edge, like I know something could go wrong at any second. Like I know I don’t belong. And for some reason, la vie bohème is the only thing that makes me fear being a foreigner.
	At 1:30AM, we finally got to the movie. We sat on this two-person couch and cuddle for the duration. I stroked her leg and played with her hair, knowing that things were going to turn out well: we had made out at her party the weekend prior, and we were finally alone, save for one kid high out of his mind on the couch next to us.

	And things worked out, I guess. The movie ended, we talked for a while, and then at 4:00AM she suggested that she go to bed. I agreed; we shifted positions and then started making out. I remarked the time; she stood up, straddled me, and we picked up where we left off.
	4:20AM came too soon, and I knew that I just had to get out. As much as I wanted to stay more and mess around even further, I was fearful of falling asleep and that somehow, by the malevolence of karma, I would sleep past my NROTC commitment that morning.

	She stood up and i was holding her hand. I looked into her face. I smiled. She smiled.
	"What are you doing next friday—"
	"No."







	"…"
	She looked up and to the left and brushed her hair out of her face.
	"Have we had this talk yet?"
	Her smiled looked a little — I dunno, pained? And she still held my hand.
	"I don’t date. I don’t date. I can’t date." I gave her the space to speak. "At this point in my life, what I want, what I need, is to not be emotionally exclusive with someone. I can’t do that."




	"Okay."

	Well what the fuck else was I supposed to say?
	I stood up.
	I put my hand around her head and gently scratched her scalp. We kissed.
	I think that was the right move, but I’m not really sure. We talked about future plans, about how I’m going to make her watch Firefly. We made out a little more.
	I left and went to bed for an hour before getting up and running at PT.

	As part of the half-marathon team for NROTC, we get to skip Wednesday and Friday battalion PT and instead have to do our own group runs at the same timeslot. It’s a bit of an improvement — it’s a hell of an improvement — but the timing is still the same. We were in the CCRB on Friday morning.
	I took a treadmill and just cruised. Listened to one song, whose only real line is "Can’t fuck with us. Don’t fuck with us. Come fuck with us." Stared at the wall. Ran. Fast. For being out of shape, exhausted, and heavier than I used to be, I was dropping 7:00/mi like they were nothing. I was moving faster than I had since even before the first threat of snowfall.

	But god damn, if I wasn’t overcome with… I don’t even know. Alissar stirred in me these feelings that I didn’t know I had. From having beautiful women faun over and adore me all the previous weekend — week, two weeks, even — all of a sudden it was not enough. Essays of interactions no longer engaged me. A small story of a girl one night could not captivate me anymore. I wanted more. Short stories, novellas, novels, romans; a movie, film, a radio special.
	Sadness.
	I believe that’s the word for what I felt.

	I finished up my treadmill running after I hit about 47 minutes. I turned off the treadmill, did some light stretching, and then walked out of the cardio room. I turned right to walk towards the exit, and, in doing so, was facing a long, full-wall mirror that stretched the expanse of the room.
	Short shorts, long legs, high socks to my knee.
	Virginia club singlet, though I’ll be damned if anyone can tell it apart from the varsity version.
	Broad shoulders, and a haircut that didn’t look too bad, considering I did it myself on Wednesday. In fact, it looked pretty good.
	I looked good.
	I looked great.
	I looked like a statue from antiquity, muscles carved of marble.
	It felt good to have done something right in the oldest relationships I have.
	Efforts not done in vain.
	Investments with good return.	I looked down from the wall to the floor. There was an inch of water covering it, and in my new shoes, I was worried about getting them dirty with filthy water, but in my cobbled-together thrift-shop suit, it somehow felt appropriate. There was no flush on the urinal, so I shook, zipped, and turned around. I looked at the sinks. I walked toward the sinks. I turned right, dodging the sinks. Like most males with more than a couple weeks of experience with their tool, I hadn’t pissed on my hands. The sinks felt more like a distraction from my last night in France and the people on the dance floor than an ancient invention designed for public health. I walked up a few steps and put my arm out to the wall as I turned the corner back to the party. I jogged up the three steps.
	Some guy came down at the same time, busting past me as I narrowly moved my arm in time.
	"Excusez-moi," I said in a hushed voice. The French hate me because I’m loud, and I hate the French because they’re quiet.
	"Sorry, man," he said simultaneously.
	We each go a few more steps in our directions. I guess at this point I admitted to myself that nothing was really happening on the dance floor.
	"Are you from the States?" I stopped and turned down the stairs toward the bathroom.
	He stopped too. "Yeah, man."
	We shook hands. I suppressed the thoughts that his hand had now effectively touched my dick. I made damn sure not to accidentally tell him.
	"What are you doing in Paris?"
	"I work here, man."
	"How long have you worked here?"
	"Five years, man."
	This was the standard dance that the Americans I met in France did. They — we — would ask each other these basic questions to figure out what we were doing so far from home. It felt scripted, but it didn’t feel bad.
	"What brought you to Paris?"
	"Love, man." He held out his left hand and pointed to the ring on his finger. "I fell in love with a French woman."

	Love, man. The guy was a caricature of himself.
	He could’ve phrased it a thousand different ways, the most obvious being "My wife is French." But instead, he chose to give me a response that was just dripping in story and history.
	I know he’s got a life filled with success, failure, fair winds, and trouble, but I don’t want to know those. I want to know him solely as the incarnation of love, man.
	In his response, he said that love is a story.
	I like that idea.	This was a pleasant read. Since I sit next to you every day, I had been anxiously waiting to see your writing. You make a lot of great points and articulations in class, so I had certain expectations for your piece.
	You start with your introduction (duh), which is two paragraphs semi-awkwardly written that both literally talk about finding balance while being misaligned, but also figuratively express that point. By spelling out the meaning and explaining that you hadn’t thought about how those paragraphs would relate to your paper, you show us the same unbalanced and misaligned nature.
	We continue in the present tense to you going to a small group meeting (New Life?). Regardless, I’m glad somebody has the same concerns and issues with it, because one of my good friends raves about how awesome small group is and I think she’s crazy.
	Then we jump to the past tense as you drop us into a narrative of your small group experience — but only for a paragraph and a half. Then it’s back to discursive elements.	 The meetings are deep, but not deep enough. People cry — mostly because of hormones.
	Aaaaand then you talk about all that you could talk about. I’ll quote something from your paper: "I could depict my weakness and my imperfections, and cover every prompt given in the syllabus. But where is the actual vulnerability? How does the deep place of my heart search for answers? What am I reciting and what am I discovering?" Table that idea for a minute.
	Next you talk about how you performed a piece and by some mere stroke of fate, your solo was 15 seconds too long and you missed out on an award but received another. Now we get to something real, how you did this project and others like it because you wanted to, not for some reward.
	And then you ramble for a while. You say "Fuck the police; I am the law." and decide that this essay will be on truth. Oh, we even have a nice section here where you battle that one discussion we had about DFW.
	Ok, so I guess you really don’t want to write this essay. You wrote a rant that would be given to the entire class to read. You have a mandatorily captive audience. You’re given the mic. You get on stage. You look around.
	And then you just mail it in. You’re an artist, Tehillah, and you just forsake the chance to do something cool. You sit down at your computer and begin to bleed all over the page. But what do you say? Is it even blood? Hardly. You pricked a finger and ran it over everything and said accusatively: "Is this good enough? Where is the vulnerability? I’m not hurting. This doesn’t hurt."
	So back in my former life of before college, i had problems with my dad. Big problems. He never hit me, though once I hit him over the head with a landline phone (not sure how I managed that). I was an angry child. But the point is I went to 10 years of psychological therapy. I fought it tooth and nail for 8.5 or 9 years. Maybe even closer to 10. My point is that I have a bit of experience with refusing to bleed, bleeding a little, and then slitting your wrists and gushing all over the page or to a person through words.
	You really had something with your first page, but then you just mailed it in. I don’t know what stopped you, but you evidently saw something you didn’t like and so you turned your tail and ran. I open about the fact that I had a shitty relationship with my father, and I’m more than willing to talk about it, but I hate it because it scares me and makes me feel guilty. It exhausts me. I can’t continue.
	You can do this. I know you have it in you to take your first page and your scene about small group and turn it into something bigger. You defend yourself from weakness and introspection. You’re dating some guy. You’re talking about marriage. How is that not fucking huge? Are you scared? Are you ready? Do you bleed for this guy? Can you open up to him? Can you open up for us?
	What’s really the issue here? You don’t have to be right and you don’t have to be good. I just stole a box of secrets from the women’s bathroom. I used to deal drugs in high school. I never used them, I only sold them. I used to extort people. I was a loan shark.
	it’s okay to be wrong.
	I want to talk about two things: what this piece is and what this piece could be.
	First, you start off where you talk about connections. You are told that college is where you need to connect with people, and academic achievement is an undertone. I’d like to interject here and say that I desperately hope this is the case because my grades are certainly not going to get me anywhere. The points that I take away from your intro are hyper sociality, super sexualization, and extremes of self-exploration. You then begin to question your relationships with other people. You close with your first instance of the word "intimacy", which I find rather appropriate.
	You recall then the time when you were pledging a fraternity and snuck into the Big House. Was that intimacy?
	Then you talk about how twenty years from now you will be instant friends with someone else who went to Michigan.
	Next you talk about what you want in a roommate.
	Finally, you talk about romance and love, starting with what you desire and then going into something of a story. This segues into how you are a recluse this year. You finish with describing how this is simply the first step in becoming intimate with others: becoming intimate with yourself.

	So what this piece is is a lot of discursive elements tied together with a bit of narrative. You do, however, have a topic, which is, in my opinion, the hardest part. More specifically, you have a GOOD topic. I found this topic to be the struggle for intimacy with others. You really hit this note perfectly in your last section (about romance and love) and end quite well. I feel like the other parts (the frat pledging and the bar moment) are also pretty good, but the narrative in them is… lacking? I’m not sure how to describe it. It’s like it’s been described rather than told. I want the tales to be recounted, even if one of them hasn’t happened yet. Bring me there. Slow time down. Speed it up. I think you can and should do the same for the third section, but it will be more difficult. You really do have to use narrative there as decoration, showing us your point about your reclusion and desire for intimacy (but, simultaneously, your satisfaction with focusing on yourself). I’d like to see a scene of you sitting down and eating a bowl of cereal in a salad bowl, milk and all. I want to hear the boringness. I want to taste, to smell the boringness of the honey nut cheerios as the fall into the bowl in the exact sound that every child in America has engrained in the very core of their brains. Invoke that Pavlovian response we all have. Make it ring true.
	Your introductory and concluding paragraphs are really quite good. The introduction introduces (hah) the topic, but never supplies a solution, instead giving us nothing but doubt. Finally, it all comes together in the conclusion. It’s really quite well done.

	Abigail, this is an awesome piece. This is absolutely fantastic. This is my favorite piece by anyone in our class. Your writing is technically fantastic, if a little flowery at times for my taste. The structure of the piece is great as well, using the setup of rebecca and abbey and then the parallelism of your experiences as a child. Really, this is brilliantly done.
	At first, I wanted to see more about Rebecca and Abbey in the diner — who were they? But then as I kept reading, I realized that who they are is unimportant and distracting. Speaking of distracting, the mole man: very confused by him. If I visualize this piece as though it were a short film, it would make sense because it could be seen, somewhat, as less deliberate and intrusive. The fact that this is writing means that your inclusion of him is very deliberate.
	I really don’t have many comments to give here, other than to clarify the confusing parts by adding breadcrumbs elsewhere. Don’t give too much away, whatever you do.	This was an interesting piece to read. I thought your writing was very good on a technical level and the sentences and paragraphs flowed smoothly. I spent this weekend rereading old pieces I have written, so yours was a refreshing breath of air.
	You do a good job of introducing and realizing the characters in your story. I felt like I truly understood Rachel. I would like to see a little more of Alice, however. She holds greater import in this story and I would like to know a bit more about her. You seem to be targeting an idea of the ideal friend and using Alice as your champion of that idea; it would be more helpful to have a clearer idea of what this ideal friend is (which you define very well through the Montaigne example) and to have a clearer image of where Alice is now, how close she is, and how far she is.
	When I started writing this response, I wasn’t quite sure you had an argument to your piece — it felt more like an introduction of ideas. But upon further reflection, I feel that the argument you’re making is that of your friends and how it is to make friends. I think this could be strengthened by exploring your feelings on seeing Christina and Rachel drift away. How did you feel? Did you just let them fall off? What did you do after that? Were there any lessons you took from it other than "friends of convenience exist"?
	Your paper is about how failure will lead you to success. You start off with a story from middle school about how you tried out for your basketball team but didn’t make it. To prepare for it and to put forth a real effort, you went to a weeklong camp. You put forth your effort, took umbrage at the idea that the camp was not enough, and you failed. However, you continue to play basketball to this day. This is an example of where you did not let failure deter you.
	You do a good job here balancing narrative and discursive elements. This is something that much of the rest of your paper misses and could benefit from.
	You spend four pages discussing this, and it ultimately does not hold any extra weight in your paper. I feel this unbalances the whole piece and sets up a large expectation of what the paper means that is never fully realized. You talk about how you quit basketball after seeing the hard work it would require to get good — I’d like to hear more about this. Quitting something is big (especially in an essay about how failure enables you to succeed). You introduce and close this section as an entire essay unto itself which makes it difficult to have it play well with the other sections in this piece.
	Your next section is about applying to Texas and Ross and being accepted to Texas but rejected from Ross. Wait, or is it? About halfway through the section, you switch to talking about your job that summer and how you ultimately chose to stay at Michigan to study medicine. While I see what happened, it doesn’t feel thought-out and instead feels awfully confusing. I was expecting a section about how failing to get into Ross taught you some lesson, but instead read about how you want to be an orthopedist.
	I think this section could benefit from your opening up of the fact that you received a major acceptance and rejection within two weeks. How did that affect you? You say camp came in the way — that suggests you were hiding from it. Why were you hiding? What did you want and what did the letters suggest would happen? What made you stay? Can you not study orthopedics at Texas?

	You have a lot of good material here that you could expand upon and really open up. I think you should focus less on the basketball camp and more on the college acceptance/rejection letters. In fact, I’d suggest that you get rid of the first section entirely and focus entirely on the transition to college and what you ultimately decided to do.
	Excellent piece! You really opened up to us in this which is very refreshing. Your voice stands loud and clear, and you talked about some important things to you. I really appreciate that you chose to tell us about them. This is something that a lot of other papers in this class, I felt, have not done.
	You start off with a fantastic title: "Yourself is Yourself, Which Could Be Another". The first half of that title is cliché, but the second part is really fantastic. You set yourself up for an exciting argument that I was really looking forward to read.
	The introductory paragraph is a hilarious read that toyed with that initial question in the title. You finish with part of a sentence and then start the next paragraph with temporally shifted parallel sentence — I absolutely loved this.
	The specific use of dates here makes this a very real experience. It’s not just a story, it’s a time machine. We are there with you. You take us back to middle school where you first learned to respect yourself and have standards for friends.
	Then, you take us to when you had conflict about your being a virgin with your then-boyfriend (friend? Friend? friendboy?) Rob. I think a little clarification of your relationship with Rob would be helpful as it could shed some light simply on how blank of a slate you two are starting with. The night of Aoki is the important part, but just a touch more background would be helpful.
	Finally, you talk about and defend your choice of solo for your BFA final project. You defend yourself and your dignity and your choices well.
	Ultimately, though, you end the piece with a paragraph that can be summarized as "Look at all this stuff I learned!" This really encompasses my issue with your piece: you never make an argument; you simply present some stories and say "this is my transformation".
	To get back to your title, you introduce the idea that you could be posing as someone else or someone else could be posing as you. I’d like to see you return to that idea somehow. Talking about identity confusion would be an interesting thing to read.
	You don’t really set yourself up for any particular argument with the evidence you immediately supply, but I think with a little bit of tweaking and maybe the addition of another story, you could really harken back to your original title.
	I am glad to hear that you have accepted and moved on from your mother’s (and grandfather’s) diagnosis of MS. I cannot imagine that being and easy thing to do.
	You talk about the importance of your mother for a few pages, starting with how she made a great effort to be an important figure in your lives growing up. You then talk about how she was a major sports supporter. Then you tell us about how your grandparents supported you as well, but then you tell us about how your grandfather has MS. You then describe how you went to Las Vegas and had a blast there up until your parents dropped the bomb on you that your mother had MS as well.
	You have a very interesting story to tell here. I want to read it and just sink my teeth into the page. You have a lot of great material, and you can really show instead of tell.
	Unfortunately, that’s not quite what happens here. You tell us about how good your mother is to you for the first three pages, then you tell us about your grandpa for about a half page, then you tell us about a volleyball game for two pages. At this point, I have no idea where this paper is headed. At first I thought it was about your mom, then I thought it was about your grandfather, and now I know something important is going to happen at volleyball… but it just goes on and on. The scene involves your brother being rude to your mother when she is showing what would later be revealed to us as signs of her illness, which is great foreshadowing, but it was really hard to pick up on during the initial reading. In the last two pages, we finally hear about your mother’s illness.
	I’d really like to hear more about YOUR growth through this all. Everything is very much a first-person retelling of a third-person tale; I want to see a first-person tale. I want you to be in the spotlight. Dialogue should have a purpose, but most, if not all, of the dialogue is extraneous. You have a lot of good material here, but the foreshadowing needs to be sharper and more contrasting.
	This is a very interesting piece to read. You talk about how you had to step up and learn English, and that you left China (or prepared to leave China? I wasn’t quite sure. I think It might’ve been all in China). You were scared of the new learning environment and toyed with the idea of giving up on learning English. Your mother persuaded you to keep with it. You even forsook your friends so that you could study English. It culminated with you studying the dictionary in a restaurant, completely forgetting to order your food. You are now confident in the classroom and ready for new challenges ahead.
	This was a wonderful piece to read, both because I can relate to the piece after having done much of the same work, and because of the insight we gain into you and English as a Second Language students. The way you write is also very interesting because, even though there are errors, the sentences still transport the reader and take us inside your mind.
	I’d like to focus on more of the structural components of the piece rather than the technical components because the errors you had were really quite manageable. Sure, they detracted from the flow of the piece, but they were minor.
	Your use of the phrase "For instance" makes it seem like you’re forcing much of the evidence to come forth. See if you can get it to flow by removing those sentences and having each paragraph evolve out of the previous paragraph.
	Honestly, that’s my only complaint. Your piece highlights very well how you have sacrificed much for learning English. It conveys this argument quite clearly and with sufficient evidence.

	Wow, this was a great piece. You really have a way with words that just made this all truly flow. You start off by talking about the role animals have had in your life, and then begin to get more specific. We see your dog Samson, then we visit Travis, your horse, and his utter attention to safety.
	And then you bring us to the chorus of the title when you ask your mom whether your pets will go to heaven. You even conclude a paragraph with a sentence that shouts-out to the closing sentence of your intro paragraph (wonderful!). Finally, you take us to the realm of the dead, and the largest story here is that of Misty. Misty 
	This was a wonderfully written piece. I genuinely have no comments on it. You clearly thought this all through, based on the clear parallelism and linking of parts, and the flow of the story is unperturbed. You do use the phrase "One day" quite a few times — it might be worth finding an alternate word to use.
	Have you ever lost any people that were close to you? You draw so many parallels between people and animals that a death of a person might make for an interesting comparison.
	It was Monday.
	It was a Monday.
	After making some phone calls outside North Hall, the ROTC building, I went to my French class to speak some French and hang out with people who don’t know how to have social interactions in a classroom setting. I rolled in and grabbed a seat against the wall on the right, the seat the second closest to the door. Our professor, George Hoffmann, came in and gave us our class. I wish I knew what he was talking about, but I was just so tired. I was warm, wearing my muted green-and-red wool sweater and my tie-dye jeans. It was a big day, an important day, so I figured I should dress to make a first impression.
	Class dragged on. It was getting hot. I was uncomfortable. I wanted to leave. I don’t like this. I want to go home. I just need to leave. At noon, M. Hoffmann let us out, and I left the room and
	walked down the hallway. No, that’s not it. I moved. I walked with purpose. Not a prideful strut, nor a march, but I was moving at a serious pace. The hallway was lined with what must’ve been 50 students sitting down against the walls, waiting for their classrooms to open up. Come get drunk at Charley’s now I got a text during class. Looks like someone’s having a good day. I went up a long flight of stairs and moved outside the double doors and
	was hit with sunshine.
	Beautiful sunshine.
	It was warm.
	Wow, it felt nice. Gentle, caressing. Bright, though, definitely very bright. I stood at the southwest corner of the MLB and was turning right towards my bike.
	"Ari!"
	I turned around.
	Ah, Theresa: Slavic girl, the girl eponymously named for the class which we share.
	"Oh hey! How ya doing? How was Polish?" I knew she had Polish language class at the same time as my French class; we were in the same building, same floor, only three or four doors down from each other.
	"It was good, same old, same old. We watched some Polish rap videos today; they were pretty scary. You might like them though. How are you?"

	Hm.
	I guess I’m good.
	Yeah, I’m good.
	I’m going to get a $15,000 check in four months.
	But I didn’t like making those phone calls today.
	"Bad."
	I really didn’t like making those phone calls today.
	"Pretty fucking bad."
	It feels nice to say it.
	To admit it to myself.
	"I think I’m going to Charley’s and get drunk."
	"We have class in two hours," Theresa reminded me.
	"I’ll be there."
	I didn’t go to Charley’s. I went home. I wanted to sleep. I think I should’ve cried, but that’s the issue: do I do what I feel like doing, or do I treat situations with no more respect than they deserve? Mountains and molehills, mountains and molehills…
	I went to my Slavic class.
	i went to my EECS class.
	I ate dinner.
	I slept.

	Three days before was Friday. Four days before was Thursday. But nothing of consequence happened on Thursday.
	Friday.
	I got an email from my XO, stating that our service assignment results were possibly in. And that we would find out soon. As in a matter of hours.
	It’s cool, I can wait. I am an expert in patience. I am an expert in compartmentalization: I am a runner.

	I was dreaming about what it’d be like to be an EOD officer.

	Then the texts started rolling in, asking what I got.
	I had no clue what I got, though. I was days away from knowing what I would be, what I would do for the next 5-10 years most definitively, the next 15 years more extensibly.
	I went on Facebook: my newsfeed was blowing up with people across the country talking about what they got assigned.
	I kept dreaming about what it’d be like to be an EOD officer.
	I could not wait anymore with these texts. Facebook was ruining me, driving me nuts. I literally could not sleep that night.

	Out, out, damn spot!

	I was so happy. I was so excited. I wrote my dad an email, telling him how my nerves were firing nonstop. I knew it was unhealthy to play the numbers game, but I had to. I just had to:
	There are 14 EOD slots for ROTC midshipmen, and 24 midshipmen went on cruise (4 for each cruise, 6 different cruises). That means I’m looking at roughly 2 MIDN/cruise that get a billet for EOD. Out of the 4 on my cruise, I know 2 didn't get it, and one did. I am the only one who doesn't yet know.

	However, things are thrown awry because of a friend of mine who was on a SEAL cruise and dropped: I told him he might be able to go EOD, and so I gave him the appropriate contact information so he could make an interview happen. Despite not going on a training cruise, the only important thing for an EOD billet is the acceptance of the final interview.
	As luck would have it, he got an EOD billet. Which is great, he totally deserves it. But maybe that’s my slot that he took. How would I feel then?

	I’m going crazy. Everyone else in the country knows except for us.

	Out, out, damn spot!

	It was Monday.
	It was the Monday.
	I went to the gym to lift. I showered there, changed, and I left by 7:50.
	I went to my dentist appointment. I got back to campus by 8:50.
	I was at North Hall by 9:00.

	I knocked on my XO’s door first. No response.
	I went to the CO’s assistant’s office.
	"Excuse me, ma’am, what’s the protocol for finding out my service assignment? Should I just knock on the CO’s door?"
	"Yep! He’s in his office and waiting for you."
	I moved the whopping three feet to get to his office — he could undoubtedly hear me talking to his secretary — and stood at attention, preparing to knock.
	I took my backpack off and set it by my feet. I was dressed to make a first impression, that was for sure: tie-dyed white jeans and a colorful sweater, heavy with greens and reds.

	Three knocks.
	"Good morning, sir. Midshipman Ari Brown requests permissions to enter."
	"Come in, come in," yelled the CO from behind his desk inside his office.
	I was moments away from finding out what I would be. Would there be a lot of pomp and circumstance? Would there be a lot of small talk?
	I went in, shook his hand, and — "Have a seat, Brown." — had a seat on his couch.
	The CO’s office is a pretty intimidating and cold environment. There’s the couch where I was sitting, there’s the desk where the CO sits, and about 15 feet between us. I was worried I’d have to yell to be heard. In the lieutenants’ offices, you sit at a chair right at their desk. Conversation is much easier and it feels like a much more personal experience.

	"Before we begin, sir, I just want to say: if I get EOD, I will shave my mustache." I was lying; that thing was here to stay.
	Ah, my mustache.
	Poor and blond and thin.
	It is my pièce de résistance.
	It represents who I am in the context of the military.
		Shave that shitstache, Brown.
	Nope. Not gonna happen. It stays. It is the last bastion of rebellion available to Sailors.

	"Well, you didn’t get EOD, so…"

	Oh.


	That’s it?



	That’s how I find out?



	Oh.


	"… You got subs, which ain’t a bad situation."

	Thanks, cap’n.
	But I don’t need to hear your consolation prize, about how I’m going to love subs, about how it’s a respectable job.
	I don’t want to absorb your thoughts and adopt them as my own.
	I don’t want you to hold my hand as I deal with this.
	I want to do this on my own.

	"… You know, sometimes I’ve gotten my second, third, or even last choice for assignments, but I turned out to love them. I found things out about them that if I had known ahead of time, I would’ve put them as my first choice." God, that smile he wore, as though he were saying something that were truly comforting. This man is a master at langue de bois, speaking without really saying anything. I feel like all COs are. It was the same way with the two I met over the summer in San Diego.
	Stop talking. I don’t care. i don’t want to hear it. This is my battle. Stop trying to fight it for me. Get out of here.

	I left the office after we had our chat. Big smile on my face, of course, biiiiig smile. Time to inform the interested parties, the board members, the investors. These are people who have invested in some way and are continuing to invest. I am a product of my interactions with them.
	Voicemail, because Matt was in class then: "Hey man, just found out my service assignment: didn’t get EOD; instead, I’m going subs, so I’ll see you in Charleston in 6 months if you’re still around there."
	I enjoyed reading your essay. You talked about how you first got interested in playing the guitar, and you walked us through your musical development. You took us to music clubs, and you showed us various musical styles. You ultimately took us to the separation that invariably happens when kids hit high school; I went through the same separation, though I never returned but for brief sessions.
	I can tell that the guitar is something that means a lot to you. You really painted it in a wonderful light and were noticeably nostalgic for the entire piece. Your final page was really something I could connect with, and I totally empathize and sympathize with how you feel.
	Unfortunately, I feel like this essay is missing something. It felt like the forced reminiscence of the guitar, and we never really understood why you got into the guitar. Did Byron simply force it upon you? Were there any other points of inspiration? The scenes in the clubs with all the artists you’ve seen felt lacking as well. I wasn’t quite sure the point of it all; they felt very forced.
	I think you have a lot of good material here, but it needs some refining and remolding. I’m interested to see how the piece ultimately turns out, as it models my youth as well.
	I enjoyed reading your essay "This is Michigan, for God’s Sake". You talked about the activities you have going on in your life right now, and then brought us into a vivid conversation between you and your friends about football. I understand how important an Insider Account can be; I’m considering buying one for Flotrack, which is for the world of elite running. First, you sign into the insider account. Then, Sunny proves to us his arrogance. And then he proves it again by declaring that Green is obviously not going to pick Auburn. You then focus more on your hate for Vincent Smith instead of indulging yourself in a trash-talk session of Sunny. You then proceed to talk about football some more.
	You have a style that is pleasant to read. I thought you deftly transcribed the audio and presented it in an interesting format. There was a very appropriate mix of narrative and discursive writing that both moved the conversation forward and brought us with you.
	Unfortunately, it reads like a novel which, while nice, lacked a plot. You go into the room, you talk about football, and you leave. What happened in there? Nothing. You talk about football and discuss Michigan recruits. You tease us with conflict by talking about how much of a dick Sunny is — I want to read more about that. Instead of haphazardly commenting on how annoying he is, start selling it to us. How does his dickishness make you feel? Does his arrogance upset you? Does he have a history of this? Tell us about another time Sunny has been arrogant, or even a time where he wasn’t arrogant but made you particularly mad. Basically, I want him to be the bad guy in your story.
	Your story lacks a turning point or any kind of conflict. Really, anything will do. You talk about football in a way that is inaccessible to the average joe. I don’t follow football and I don’t know anything about it. Can you explain the core concept of what you discuss so that I can understand it? The actual details of the football discussion are irrelevant to what you’re talking about. To me, you’re talking about the effect of various football players on the Michigan team.
	I think you have a lot of good material here, but it needs some refining and remolding. Take it from the inside of your mind during a conversation and make it the inside of the conversation in general through your lens.
	I quit my job at the end of last semester. I was working in outdoor-clothing retail at Bivouac, which, for those who don’t know, pays their employees 10 cents above minimum wage and is run by a man who screams at his employees in front of customers and breaks things in regular fits of rage. I quit my job because I felt my time could be better spent, even though I would no longer be bringing home my minimum-wage paycheck.
	But, as part of my New Year’s resolution to not be a dumbass anymore, I had a second job lined up. I suppose now I’m working in direct opposition to the clothing industry. It pays better, for one, and its dress code is a little more relaxed. I was hired by the Stamps School of Art and Design as a figure model: I get naked for pay.

	My mom was an artist, and she pushed me heavily into the arts, which I subsequently rejected on principle. I grew up in a house with framed nude sketches on the walls that my mother had drawn. I was excited to tell them about my new job because — let’s be honest — not everyone gets to lie and say they’re a male model and only be half lying.
	"So, I finally quit my job at Bivouac."
	"Alright! Finally!" My parents had been asking — or telling? Pick one — me to quit my job at Bivouac for two weeks now, citing that I needed more time to work on my rapidly approaching projects. I was only speaking with my mother on this phone call, though.
	"I ended up getting a second job, though." There was a little hesitation in my voice: part deliberate dramatic timing, part legitimate nerves. "I’m a figure model." The spoken job title was deliberately chosen instead of "nude model" to make my parents’ son seem less like a porn star and more like a dutiful art helper. Strangely for the first time, I thought that maybe this was something I should’ve kept from from my parents.
	"You’re too funny. Best advice is don’t catch a cold. One day you’ll find out it’s okay to keep your best stuff private." Thanks, mom. For all the things she could’ve said to me, that is on the better end of the spectrum.
	Ah, but of course: 40 minutes later, they called back. This time, my parents were together on the other end.

	I had played this game before. I knew what was happening and why it was happening. As a kid, I was finely attuned to the good-cop-bad-cop relationship that formed between me and my parents: my father was harsh and definitive, and my mother was gentle and forgiving. For a long time, I would independently ask them questions and receive different answers from which I could choose to obey. Eventually, they got smart and chose to act as a singular parental unit. It was amusing for a while to force my mother, who would invariably be the one to capitulate her opinion, take up and defend a side that she disagrees with.
	My mom was alone for the first phone call, and once my father got wind of my reckless professional endangerment, the two had to team up under one banner and deal with me.

	I entertained the momentary pleasantries over the phone. So polite, and after having received these phone calls every time one of my transgressions crossed five state borders for years now, I was well accustomed to the drill.
	"Your father and I have been thinking — we know that you are an adult who will make your own choices, but your dad and I want you to know that we strongly advise you not to take this or any job like this." My mom was speaking. I could hear my dad breathing on the line through a different phone. This was a proxy war, and I had to fight both my father, whose resolve is unwavering and stubbornness knows no bounds, and my mother, whose desire to act as a single parental unit outweighed any yearn for reason.
	I was not about to ask why. In my vast experience of warring with my cohabitants, I knew that if there was any possibility for any of us to have a change of heart, it was not going to happen over the phone. These wars are won through a series of skirmishes, ambushes, and politicking rather than any large battle.
	"There are multiple reasons for this, both professional and psychological. Neither your employer nor your parents think this is a good idea." As a student in the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps program, my employer is the Navy. As a someone living across the country from where I started, I am an orphan. The Navy does not concern themselves with my legal work. My parents? At this point, I am ready to relinquish my legal claim to the last name "Brown".
	"Maybe, instead of asking us, you should talk with Miriam."

	That’s it, we’re fucking done.
	Miriam is — was — the psychologist I went to every week for 10 years. My mother forced me to go because my father and I had such issues with each other that made our house nigh uninhabitable: loud screaming and never-ending yelling, insufferable rules and unrelenting disobedience. Miriam was the psychologist I had to see but my father didn’t. She is a constant reminder that I am inferior to my father and we will never be equals. That I am subjected to therapy but my father isn’t.
	Don’t get me wrong: even though I absolutely hated seeing Miriam for 9 out of the 10 years, I grew to see its valuable and it has been absolutely tremendous in my personal growth and development.
	But this was not the time to comment about my personal growth. This was not what Miriam was being used to represent. She was being used in this context to say that I was wrong and had to be fixed, while my parents were perfect and infallible. They took what was a communication issue between the three of us and made it my personal misunderstanding.

	I hung up the phone. I was livid. I could not believe they just failed to state their reason for offense and then had the nerve to redirect it as my failure. Why were they even mad in the first place? It’s just a job. I’m helping out art students. You painted nude models when you were in college. You still do! You fucking hypocrite! This is bullshit. Why can’t they just leave me be? "… a poor professional and psychological choice…" Are they for real? Is this real life?
	I just want them to be proud. It’s too hard. Nothing I do is right. It’s always off. I can’t stand this. Stop. I’m going ahead with this job. I’m going ahead with modeling. You can’t stop me. This isn’t you. You’re wrong. I’ve looked at it, I’ve considered everything, and my math shows this to be a fine chapter.
	Anger. Sadness. Rage. False tranquility. How do I tell which emotional response is reactionary and which is genuine? How do I deescalate the situation? Tensions were high. This was high school all over again. This was 18 years of what looked to me like shackles and in all likelihood were green pastures. This was 10 years of psychologist appointments, which were the realest part of the shackles. This was utter relapse on my part while my parents merely voiced their concerns.

	I wrote an email. It was angry. I deleted it.
	I wrote an email. It was apologetic. No. I intend to hold onto my pride for all the wrong reasons.
	William Blake, the schizophrenic English poet, once wrote: "I was angry with my friend: / I told my wrath, my wrath did end. / I was angry with my foe: / I told it not, my wrath did grow."
	I told it not, my wrath did grow.
	I wrote an email. It was angry again. I was beginning to think this was how I really felt. But I was not yet ready to give in to being angry. When Blake wakes in the morning and sees his foe outstretched beneath his poison tree, he lied: Blake failed to mention that he woke adjacent to his foe under the same shade.

	But let’s back up to months prior, before I ever made the mistake of oversharing with my parents. One of my friends, Joe, was telling me a horror story of an art student encountering their model out in the wild of the world. He stopped for a moment and thought out loud: "Actually, I think you’d be pretty good as a figure model." It would be good money for easy work, and the title would be an interesting addition that I would refuse to put on my résumé. The rules of being a good model: never make eye contact with the artist, and do not talk to the artist.
	I never really got why artists were so scared to meet their models outside the studio (Joe’s story was not the first I had heard). There is a certain amount of tension with the societal taboo of asexual nudity — that I understand — and the disassociation of their frozen model as a human being with dreams, feelings, real-time thoughts, and a pulse is certainly something to grapple with, but I always felt like the compartmentalization was never too much to ask for.
	When I sit at the head of the class, wearing nothing but my birthday suit, I am nothing to the artists. I am simply a model. I am Van Gogh’s sunflowers, the grapes in the bowl on the table, or the hunks of meat in Francisco Goya’s 1812 work.
	Only I seem to know that I am alive, that the grapes are eyes, that the meat is my body. I try to keep it a secret that I’m tired from running, that I am really hurting from this pose, and that I could probably be doing homework right now. I want to make myself an object. I was told that they don’t want to think about the fact that when they go to the UGLI they could possibly run into some guy who willingly got naked for them. I come in at the start of the session quietly, and I leave the same.
	It’s always interesting when the professor uses my name. For the artists, all of a sudden their human-shaped pot of flowers becomes alive. They turn to look at me, and, by the nature of my job, I am unable to look back. I try my best to look forward, but, it’s tough because we have all been socialized to look back. The terrifying part is the instantaneous switch from dehumanized still life to fellow student and kid they might have seen at a party last weekend. I become the recipient of dozens of awkward greetings as they see me come and go — and God forbid they see me around campus, because that reopens the can of worms that was left in the art studio.
	What the artists don’t realize is that I am just as confused as they are about what our interactions are supposed to be like. Can I say hello if I see them first? Should I pretend not to notice them? None of us were formally introduced, yet I know the names of about half of them. Am I their teacher? Am I the equivalent of a guest lecturer? Everyone wants to be recognized for who they are, and the dehumanization could be seen as demeaning. I am okay with the arrangement, although clearly the artists are unsure.
	It is the core concept of being a nude model that my parents are having trouble with. Well, that’s what they say. They say they aren’t okay with the idea of me getting naked in a semi-public forum. But that’s not why they’re mad. They’re mad for some reason unknown. They’re mad for some reason that they haven’t told me, likely because they haven’t told themselves first. This is the core of our relationship issues: the failure to communicate what we are thinking and feeling. The introspection required for all parties involved makes communication a scary endeavor, and it is much easier to look outward, toward the naked man sitting in the middle of the room, than it is to look inward, toward the naked man within. I wish I knew what my parents’ real issue was. I would like to pretend that they simply don’t want to see their young son dehumanized and objectified in exchange for a little bit of cash.

	I modeled this past weekend for a community class. It was a nice work environment, quite different from Bivouac. The originally scheduled model couldn’t make it, so the teacher was quite grateful for my coming in on such short notice. She was very respectful and polite and  was doing everything she could to make me as comfortable as possible: the teacher had brought out a space heater and placed it adjacent to the table on which I did my poses. The easels were set up in a circle around a square table where I stood. I was given complete access to the prop closet and was able to bring out anything I wanted, including a comforter to make my poses my comfortable on the unsanded wooden table.
	Modeling for community members is different from modeling for 18-year-old freshmen students who are forced to draw some naked guy oh god why is he looking at me this is too weird I had better just draw a big nebula for his groin so I don’t have to look at it and another for his face so I won’t remember him.
	Community members at these Saturday classes are there because they love drawing. They want to come in smack dab in the middle of a weekend afternoon and spend it in silence working on their craft. They have opinions. They have preferences. They know what makes an interesting model. I felt like I was helping them get better at making art. I now understood how it feels to be an orange in a still life: noble, quiet, appreciated. This is truly the mark of a golden age: how wonderful it is that we live in a society where people can spend their time studying art and drawing! 
	"Does anybody have any requests for a pose?" I asked the artists.
	"I would enjoy something similar to your earlier pose," one man said, holding up an earlier drawing he had done of me. I was hunched over, twisted and contorted. The drawing itself was quite good, and he had sketched it in three different colors. The piece itself was so complicated, and on the one hand, I felt bad for creating a pose so visually confusing, but on the other, I had given him what he had wanted. I felt appreciated. I felt like I had a real opportunity to make these people happy.

	There was a remarkably cute girl in the class, as luck and life would have it; the ambiguity on social rules when you’re naked and a guest made it tough to know if I was allowed to talk to her. She showed up late, narrowly missing me doing probably doing the manliest pose I will ever do in my life: the Atlas pose with a large globe from the prop closet.
	About an hour in, we had our first break. I put my robe on, anxious to talk to the cute girl who had just stared at me naked for an hour. Anxious to say something. Anything.
	"Were you playing Coheed and Cambria earlier?" A band just south of the limelight that I thought I had heard, Coheed and Cambria would make a great conversation point if my suspicions were correct. I was wrong, but that didn’t hinder the conversation. We talked about music, school, art — why she was here on North Campus in the middle of a Saturday. She opened up willingly.
	I went back to modeling, picking poses that were as interesting as I could manage. I wanted her to value me more as a person, and I figured by some twisted logic that the best way to do that was to get her to value me more as an object We talked again during the rest of the breaks, getting to know each other a little bit better each time.
	While I was stuck with crossed legs and a contorted torso, I had a thought: that night was the Quidditch team’s Yule Ball, and I was supposed to have a friend come visit who was going to go with me, but she had to renege at the last minute.
	"Hey, so, a friend of mine was going to come visit me today, but she couldn’t make it. We were going to go to the Quidditch team’s Yule Ball." Obligatory dramatic pause. "Would you like to go with me?"
	She stopped, and I could see the gears in her head spinning. I wasn’t sure whether it was because I just asked her out or because she was just staring at my naked body for the past three hours.
	"Sure, I’d love to. When is it?"
	"Tonight at eight."
	She wasn’t sure if she could make it that night, and instead of trying to trick her into coming, I thought I would get her number. My phone was dead at the time, so I offered to give her my number instead and told her to call me if she was interested.
	She pulled out a drawing of me from her bag. I wrote my name and number on it, and in a fantastic moment of irony, I gave proof of my humanity next to proof of my objectification.

	I did it. I managed to model without being completely dehumanized. I wish I could tell my parents that I’ve found a solution, that they needn’t worry about my objectification; that their son is doing alright at college, and his job really isn’t that bad; that they have nothing to worry about, I’m making people happy, and I’m making myself happy in the process.

	But that’s not why they’re mad.	Michigan traditionally lets out in late April while everyone else is still in school, leaving me emancipated from responsibility. My dad makes the trip out from New Hampshire by car every year to pick me up and take my home. I look forward to time alone with my dad where we can talk about math, computers, the military, the upcoming summer, fruit — it’s nice to be able to interact with my father as a peer rather than a subordinate.
	That eastward drive, that pilgrimage home — it all is an extended buildup before the peak of arriving home. After 14 hours of being acutely aware of my location on roads that I only slightly recognize, I can finally step out of the car and see what I have known for years. The scent of pine throughout the town. The north wind that blows down across the White Mountains. The Dartmouth clock tower, visible on the horizon, regardless of how well-nestled you are in the woods. Down in the valley where I live, the trees are deciduous, and when the sun hits the branches lush with summertime leaves, the whole area glistens green. It’s the perfect place to sit on a hill, with a bottle or two of wine, as you watch the sun sink into the horizon and dip into the river below.
	I look forward to my homecoming every year because it affords me weeks of time to put the rest of the world on hold. I can call up my friends and go sailing, or we can bag peaks and hike all the four-thousand-foot mountains in the state. We can make lunch and sit on the green and wave to everyone we know and stare down those we don’t.
	Except I can’t.
	Because no one else is home since they’re all at school or gone for the summer.

	I struggled for a few weeks with what I was to do. There was no one around, and I was getting cabin fever stuck in my house all day. The routine of eating, running, eating, sleeping was getting to be too much — or, more accurately, not enough. I had spent all year on the computer programming; I was ready for something different. Night would roll around, the stars would shine, and I would try my best to not reminisce and yearn for days gone past.

	Many of my high school friends who went to Dartmouth run on the cross country or track teams. The runners hang out with the other runners, so when I see one runner I know, I see three others.
	Kelly Wood is a high school classmate of mine who ran cross country and track with me. She always held herself a little distant from me and was somewhat of a bully in school, but after going away to Dartmouth, she became much nicer to me and much more approachable. She studies geology and spent last fall studying the land in Wyoming. She speaks Spanish and French and is a major sports fan. Kelly ran on the Dartmouth cross country and track teams up until a few months ago. Her favorite color is green and her middle name is Anne. I occasionally call Kelly when I am in town to meet up with her or to go out to a party.
	Claire Arthur is a Massachusetts girl who goes to Dartmouth College. She is in the class of 2014, and she runs on the track and cross country teams with Kelly. Claire studies geology as well and enjoys blueberry picking. We have known each other for about two years.
	Claire is a gorgeous girl whom I met several times through the happenstances of life in Hanover: once I was handing out donuts, another time I was at a party, and yet another time I was on a run. I was introduced as a friend and high school classmate of Kelly, and our run-ins were innumerable.
	All I know is that it was a Monday night and I was in the Baker Library, Dartmouth’s library, with a sackful of donuts; midterms were in full swing, and I was looking up foreign newspapers and handing out donuts to hungry students. Claire turned the corner, saw me, and stopped.
	"Ari Brown?" Her eyebrows furrowed slightly, her head leaned forward and dropped just an inch, and her mouth was almost smiling. This dance happened almost every time she saw me: the same tepid level of excitement that pulls me in for brief conversation every time.
	But the part that kills me every time is hearing my last name: "Brown". Ari is not exactly a common name, but "Ari Brown" is no better an identifier than simply "Ari"; in any given scene, the likelihood of there being two "Ari"s is approaching zero. Hearing Claire — or anyone, for that matter — speak and refer to me by my full name clues me in that I’m not real, that my presence is a shock, that in a town of 5,000 people with a nightlife of 1,000, running in to me would be a fantastical strike of fate. It invalidates my selfhood. I become a caricature of myself.
	"What are you doing here?" she continued.
	"I’m great, thanks for asking. I’m here to get a book and deliver donuts to dying nerds." In retrospect, having a sack of donuts like I were Santa Claus did not aid my plea for realism. I wielded the sack around, opened it up, and revealed to her hundreds of donuts, courtesy of Jenna the closing Dunkin’ Donuts employee. Jenna is also a substitute teacher in the Mascoma school district.
	There is no consistent narrative between me and Claire. There is no single moment that is my definitive proof that she considers me to be an ephemeral being. There is only an array of interactions whose accumulation creates this dark, looming cloud of doubt. Interactions with Claire felt gently dipped in an anesthetic of some sort; I felt subtly painted over with a thin layer of transparency.

	"I thought Beatrice Keedsler had joined hands with other old-fashioned storytellers to make people believe that life had leading characters, minor characters, significant details, insignificant details, that it had lessons to be learned, tests to be passed, and a beginning, a middle, and an end." Kurt Vonnegut came to me in a moment of deus ex machina while I read Breakfast of Champions during a bout of loneliness this past summer.
	I was a minor character in a story that would endure for every summer for the length of college.
	Ari was struggling to make friends at Dartmouth.

	I got brunch with people after a night out, once. Well, I had used my real name, but everyone was under the impression that I was a Dartmouth student. The people were Jen Dyment, Elise Croteau-Chonka, and Tomo Berry, though Tomo never showed. Jen and Elise were transfer students and were looking for new friends, conveniently enough. Tomo is a male cheerleader. We went to the Jewel of India, a fabulous Indian restaurant on Lebanon Street. It was a Sunday, so we were able to eat their brunch buffet for $9.66 per person, including tax. White table cloths underneath glass tops gave the restaurant a classy feel, and if you didn’t know that the owner would sexually harass younger women who worked there, you would think of it as a genuinely classy restaurant.
	"So I have a confession to make." I wanted to come clean for the first time. It was time to see if the bridge I had built was flame-resistant. Jen and Elise kept eating; they didn’t think my coming confession was of any gravity. "I’m not a Dartmouth student."
	Elise stopped eating. "Then what are you?" Her phrasing made me feel like an alien, unworthy of eating at the table with them. I realized then that my bridge was not ready for primetime yet. But it was too late, as I had already spoken; the bridge was burning.
	"I’m a college student, I just don’t go to Dartmouth."
	"Why would you lie?"
	Because you wouldn’t have engaged me in any real capacity had I not. Because we wouldn’t be eating Indian food right now had I not. Because you would have deemed me not worthy of your time had I not. Jen and Elise cut contact to me after that.
	I shouldn’t have lied to them. Or should I have? Did they stop talking to me because I lied, or because I wasn’t a Dartmouth student? Was I a minor character that had tricked them into thinking I was a major one? Did they feel like I had distracted them from their goal of making friends at Dartmouth?
	Everything went smoothly when they thought I was a Dartmouth student, but cutting out of the lie and becoming Ari Brown the Michigan student went less than stellar.
	Whatever, they’re minor characters. I learned my lesson and now they’re gone.

	Joe Carey is a guy I ran with in high school. He is an incredibly charming person and an unbelievable runner. After graduating high school, he moved down the block and became a Dartmouth student. He now runs on the track team and enjoys the plethora of outdoor activities available to him. He once spent a summer living alone in Alaska. In his words, "It was fun but it sucked".
	wednesday loop at 830 tomorrow? I texted Joe asking about a run. Eight miles at 8:30AM. We would leave from his team’s lockers and do what we had dubbed "The Wednesday Loop," a loop that took us up the largest hill in town and into Etna, the next town over that was nestled in the woods so deeply that even satellites failed to properly image it.
	k. cardigan afterward Joe responded shortly thereafter. Mt. Cardigan is a peak just forty-five minutes east of us. It happens to be my favorite mountain due to its view and short hike to the top, requiring only about an hour. It is known for having the most "bang for your buck."
	We met up for the run and spent the hour hanging out and talking. That’s what makes running such an enjoyable activity: you have unadulterated alone-time to simply speak your mind. No electronics, no other people, no interruptions. It is akin to road trips, in this respect. After returning to the locker room, Joe told me that someone else was coming on the hike: Matt Pierce.
	Matt Pierce is junior at Dartmouth who, you might’ve guessed, is on the cross country and track teams with Joe. Matt hails from upstate New York and dreams of one day owning a large tract of land in Montana. He studies geology and finds an interest in GIS and other modern mapping technologies.
	Matt, Joe, and I stopped by my house so I could change before going hiking. We all came inside and wished my mother a happy birthday, as it was her 61st. Her name is Jean Elliott Brown, and although she used to sing and act professionally on Broadway, she now only does it recreationally. Matt, Joe, and I then proceeded with our day and went to the top of Mt. Cardigan. At the top, we bathed in the sun and watched the clouds roll by. We were lucky enough to see an eagle fly over us and play in the air thermals. The trees went on for miles in every direction, and we enjoyed sandwiches, cheese, and beer on the top. I treasured my day of having friends in town without any feeling of ephemerality. It was Matt, Joe, and I, and none of us were going anywhere. We sat. We talked. We ate. We drank.
	That day was unreal. It wasn’t that it was particularly exciting up on the mountaintop, but rather it was excessively normal. The sun was perfect, shining straight above us; not a cloud in the sky. The trees were in full bloom, bleeding green. We drank beer like we were older than we were. We were woodsmen in a time when we were nothing but some kids with a car and an altered sense of reality and responsibility.
	After coming down the mountain, we went our separate ways before meeting up again to go out that night. I had only met Matt that day, and I was excited that we had hit it off so well; there was no sense that he was expecting me to leave soon or that we wouldn’t see each other again that summer, month, week, or day. We went out that night to a fraternity, specifically Beta, and got mind-numbingly drunk. Neither of us were able to stand very well, and we could not stop laughing.

	Enter Graylin Harrison, a Chicago girl who used to run with Kelly and Claire on the cross country and track teams at Dartmouth. Graylin studies studio art and art history and is going to Italy in three weeks. Her favorite color is hunter green and she does not like to be woken up in the middle of the night. She is gluten intolerant and hopes to work as an understudy for an artist this coming summer. Graylin is dating Matt Pierce and has been for the past year.

	Graylin was with Matt and me in the basement of Beta that night, and when Matt was unable to take care of himself any further, she walked him home. When I came to my senses somewhat and realized that Matt had disappeared, I texted him and Graylin, trying to piece together the puzzle. Graylin, realizing that I was quite drunk and that I had to walk a mile through cop-infested streets, suggested that I come back to Matt’s place and spend the night there. I obliged.

	When I arrived at the dorm room, Matt was already sufficiently asleep in his bed. I was uninterested in joining him, so I sat in the lounge with Graylin. And we talked. For hours. The sun was up and I was sober by the time I left and decided to get some sleep; I was pleased to see that the beauty of the previous day carried into the sunrise and morning air.
	Graylin and I are now good friends, and we talk often. I have visited her in Chicago, and I even spent last Thanksgiving with her family instead of flying out east to be with mine. To her, I am real and not some fleeting minor character.

	Graylin was the first of her friends to drop running due to injury. She was the only one of her friends who was unable to make the 14 hours of running per week necessary to compete at their level. Her growing distance from her friends coincided neatly with my arrival in town.
	Sometimes we go through periods where we don’t talk, and other times we go through periods where we talk a lot. She fills me in on what has happened with her life, and I have noted that the frequency with which we talk is directly related to how well her affairs on campus are going. As she grew further and further apart from her team, we spoke more and more. As her time at school got better and she hung out more with her friends and teammates, we spoke less and less; her texts became one-word answers that ended conversations instead of allowing them to grow organically.

	At the end of the summer, there’s clear anxiety in the air: exams. And you would think with my preclusion that I would be unburdened by the same fear that I endure, but it gets to me too. All of a sudden, the friends that I’ve made are holed up in their rooms or the library, and I’m left holding the pieces. The only thing that is real to them is the pressing issue of studying and how much they don’t want to do it.
	I go home. I make breakfast. I wave to the mailman. I pick up the mail: junk mail, junk mail, bill, and a check for me. I was going to go to Finland for the rest of the summer to work for their Forest Administration, and to fund the trip, I sought money from the Scandinavian Department. I ultimately received money from the Swedish Women’s Educational Association — I didn’t ask questions; I simply smiled and thanked them. The Scandinavian Department, as a subset of the German Department, gave me the money to make my summer nearly free. I couldn’t see why a group based around funding women’s education in Sweden would send a man to chop trees in Finland, but as one man on my flight to Helsinki put it, "they saw an opportunity to invest in the future, and they took it." For the slowly dwindling cultures of Fenno-Scandinavia under the influence of American culture, anyone wanting to learn their language and study their culture is an opportunity to make their world real to someone else.

	It was tough to make friends in Finland, given that I was only there for a short time, but I did make one friend, Julien. Julien Piffard is from France and studies National Park Land Management in Bordeaux, and he was interning at Urho Kekkonen national park in Finland at the same time I was. We bonded over speaking French and English, similar tastes in music and TV, similar senses of humor, and a shared dislike of the other Frenchman, Mickäel, whose inability to consider how his plans affect others left us all with a sour taste in our mouths.
	About halfway between America’s Independence Day and France’s Bastille Day, Julien had to leave for France. He had been in the park for six months, since January, and our time had overlapped for about a month. We could’ve hitchhiked to the Arctic Circle if we had wanted to, but it would’ve been a five hour trip south to do so. We had just begun figuring out how to enjoy and experience the area when Julien had to make his flight home.
	It was a Monday night, or would’ve been if we had seen the moon in a month. The sun was shining over an open stretch of road in the middle of a sloping forest at the foot of the naked fells and rolling tundra that all stretched to the Russian border, some hundred miles to the east. I stood at the edge of our driveway underneath some pine trees by a small snowbank on the edge of that road. It was about a 6km drive to the highway, and from there I think it was a straight shot of 50km to the nearest town. From there, Julien would fly from the airport to Helsinki on the other end of the country. He loaded his two large bags into a small car that was being driven by one of the other workers in the park. We hugged. He got in. They sped off.
	I walked back inside our — now "my" — cabin.

	"Mom, how am I getting to Michigan this year?" I knew I had to ultimately end my homestay in Hanover and return to Michigan. School called. The Navy called. Friends called. I could figure it all out at the end of the summer, but I knew it would be best to start framing the cross-country trip early.
	That westward drive, that adventure to school, that return of the prodigal adopted son of Michigan — after 14 hours of being acutely aware of my location on roads that get progressively less familiar, it’s a relief to see them all of a sudden become familiar, to see the houses where I’ve slept and the people that not only I’ve missed but have missed me. That drive from Toledo to Ann Arbor — I could recite it backwards and forwards on any given day of the week in any state of mind. Take I-80 and drop to 75 South. Turn onto 23 North. Hop off on Exit 37B — watch out for A and C: they’ll be marked for Ann Arbor but they lead off to the rest of the township.	Bread is an integral part of religious and civil life. Bread, be it leavened or unleavened, is used in communion, one of the holiest of rituals in Christianity. In civil life, bread is a staple of meals, particularly during times of hardship ("[During the Great Depression,] children would go to school with nothing in their lunch buckets but … a scrap of bread with lard smeared on it.", 198). Most people disregard the importance of the symbol of bread in the book, casting it aside as though it represented only times of hardship and times of plenty. Marilynne Robinson takes the divine importance of bread and uses it to highlights the forgiveness between characters. More specifically, the use of bread to highlight forgiveness suggests a parallel between the father-son relationships of the Ames family. 
	Bread accepts its first connection to divinity in Mark 14:22 of the New Testament, where Jesus says "And as they were eating, he took bread, and when he had blessed, he brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take ye: this is my body." Jesus declares the blessed bread as a metaphor for his body, which in some interpretations is not a metaphor for Christ’s body but rather the literal body of Christ. In Matt 13:33, the Bible says "The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven," which provides further liturgical and clerical evidence that leavened bread is like the kingdom of heaven: divine and holy. On page 129, John Ames III cites the Lord: " ‘What man of you, if his son asked for bread, would give him a stone?’ ". When John Ames II asks his father’s grave for something equally, if not more, holy as bread, he asks for forgiveness; an altered quote would be "What man of you, if his son asked for forgiveness, would give him a stone?". The event of John Ames II asking for forgiveness from his father’s grave likens the bread mentioned in John Ames III’s quotation to forgiveness.
	John Ames III receives what was effectively communion from his father ("I remember it as communion, and I believe that’s what it was." 96), and then later mentions the importance of that experience, although fictional, to him (103). An important part of communion is accepting Jesus as the savior and eating the body of Christ, which is bread. Although at first there does not appear to be any forgiveness in that "communion" between John Ames III and his father, the bread was called "the bread of affliction" (95), which is exclusively from the exodus and the subsequent forty years in the desert. The bread (biscuit) had soot on it (95), which "affected the taste" (95). Upon closer examination of post-Civil War middle America, the hardships that the Jews felt when fleeing Egypt during the biblical Exodus (the only context in which the bread of affliction is mentioned) brought about the bread which is known as the "bread of affliction". This bread represented hardships of the exodus which were similar to those felt by people when John Ames III was growing up, as evidenced by the fact that the bread of affliction, the mark of hardship, "was often mentioned in those [post-Civil War] days" (95). John Ames II was trying to hide the misery of the times by acting as though the ash on the bread was clean and wouldn’t change the taste (95). While churches burned and the people lived in a drought (95), John Ames II’s bringing the soot-covered biscuit to young John Ames III was a way of asking for forgiveness for the times in which they lived.
	What remains interesting is that John Ames I tried to storm out of the house, taking with him only bread (83). This would seem as though he is forcibly taking preemptive forgiveness for leaving the family (85), but he does not succeed; John Ames II, his son, stops him in the doorway and does not let him pass (83). John Ames II’s wife then invites John Ames III in for a meal, which does not explicitly contain bread. In this manner, he does not receive any forgiveness, nor does he accept any forgiveness. If John Ames I had succeeded in leaving the house with his piece of bread, it would have symbolized the assumption that John Ames II would ask him for forgiveness. Although John Ames II eventually asks for forgiveness from his father, it is not until he has passed away.
	Bread is used throughout Gilead as a symbol of forgiveness. Since monumental moments in the lives of John Ames I, II, III are marked by bread and forgiveness, it stands to reason that the use of bread is a metaphor for the relationships between the men in the Ames lineage. Bread is not used outside the context of the Ames family, except for the references to God (130) and Jesus (69) and a short mention of lunch during the Great Depression (198). The parallel between bread and forgiveness affords us insight into the relationship between John Ames III and his son, where the son is given a delicacy of peanut butter and apple butter on raisin bread (117). This gift of bread to the son suggests that John Ames III is asking his son for forgiveness for his early disappearance. Forgiveness and Christianity were the two major themes in Gilead, and bread, with its holiness as described in the Bible, fit perfectly with both of those. The linkage of bread to the Ames lineage allows us to further analyze John Ames III’s guilt that he feels towards his son, the mysterious and unnamed character throughout the book.	Watchmen visualizes a story of good and evil in the story of the hunt for a killer. Alan Moore characterizes "good" and "evil" in the protagonists and antagonists. Most people think that these alignments are spread shallowly and according to the intents and means of the character. However, upon an analysis of how terrorism is used in the pursuit of "good" by Jon, Rorschach, and Veidt, we find that these characters are not as simply created as we had assumed. Their complex alignments show that "good" and "evil" are not polar opposites, and the rationalization of the alignments suggest that "good" and "evil" are not determined by the characters’ actions, but rather by the presence of empathy.
	Adrian Veidt works to solve impending doom of a nuclear holocaust (XI, 19, 5-8), and he, as far as the reader can tell, succeeds (XII, 19, 7). Veidt succeeds by setting off large explosions in major cities and killing untold numbers of people. This is, by definition, terrorism, as he seeks to terrorize people into peace. The legitimate intent of terrorizing the world into peace occurs when Veidt says:
"Unable to unite the world by conquest… Alexander’s method… I would trick it; frighten it towards salvation with history’s greatest practical joke." (XI, 24, 4)
Veidt uses terrorism to avoid war. He feels that fewer deaths will result from his act of terrorism than will result from the nuclear holocaust. Veidt’s ultimate goal is peace, which makes Veidt’s intentions "good". However, since Veidt is generally viewed as the antagonist of the story, his actions and overall intent are considered "evil". This naturally produces a contradiction between what the reader expects and what the reader finds.
	Rorschach maneuvers his way through the criminal underworld leaving in his wake broken fingers and terror; he breaks a man’s fingers with the intent to terrorize him into divulging information: "Won’t insult legendary underworld solidarity by suggesting you surrender name without torture." (X, 14, 4). The way he deals with criminals is depraved and violent ("Soft on scum. Too young to know any better. Mollycoddled them. Let them live." (VI, 14, 5-6)), but he still aligns himself with the police (VI, 15, 2). Rorschach’s use of terrorism in the pursuit of "good" is similar to Veidt’s situation, where he uses terrorism to realize his overall goal of world peace. The difference between Rorschach and Veidt, however, is that Rorschach is viewed as an antihero while Veidt is viewed as the villain. That two people who operate via the same modus operandi (terrorism for the greater good) should be viewed as so starkly different (good and evil) suggests that good and evil are not so different, and that they are merely two points on a spectrum that are not, in fact, opposites.
 	Jon was the original safeguard against nuclear war, because he is able to intimidate other countries into not firing their weapons (IV, 12-13). Indeed, he is literally scaring other nations into peace, terrorizing them for the safety of the world, following the definition of terrorism. Jon started out the same as Veidt, terrorizing the world into peace. He eventually leaves Earth, presumably to abandon his responsibility as a terrorist in the cause of "good". Veidt’s actions to prevent war, in filling the void that Jon created, are analogous to the common hypothetical question of a group of people and the railroad: if there were a runaway railroad car heading toward six people, and you could stop it by throwing a switch to make it hit, instead, three people, would you do it? In this case, Veidt is saying yes, he would. Jon has an even easier question, however, because instead of hitting three people in the best case, he becomes a tool for war and can directly minimize how many people he kills. An elementary analysis would say that Jon is not evil for not wanting to participate in throwing the switch, but by analyzing his inaction to prevent the death of a Vietnamese woman suggests that he is just as guilty because of his inaction as Blake, the man who killed her. Blake, while in Vietnam with Jon, shoots a woman pregnant with his child after she confronts him and slashes his face (II, 14, 2-9).
"Yeah. Yeah, that’s right. Pregnant woman. Gunned her down. Bang. And y’know what? You watched me. You coulda changed the gun into steam or the bullets into mercury or the bottle into snowflakes! You coulda teleported either of us to goddamn Australia… But you didn’t lift a finger!" (II, 15, 3-4)
Blake accuses Jon of being just as guilty as he is for her death. He highlights how Jon had the power to stop the murder but didn’t have the volition, thus making him partially responsible. As one who would be partially responsible for nuclear holocaust, he would be the opposite of Veidt, making him "evil". This conflicts with the reader’s natural assumption of alignment, showing that the difference between good and evil is less than initially imagined; the two alignments are not, as commonly assumed, polar.
	Watchmen highlights how our definitions of "good" and "evil" are not, as one originally supposes, based upon the means or the end. The actions of Rorschach, Veidt, and Jon show that good and evil are not so far apart and have many overlaps (such as the modus operandi of Rorschach and Veidt). Jon uses "good" means (leaving Earth, living in peace) and reaches an "evil" end (allowing nuclear holocaust to happen). Veidt and Rorschach use "evil" means to reach a "good" end. The fact that Jon is relatable as "good", Veidt is generally identifiable as "evil", and Rorschach is traditionally identified as the "good" antihero shows that there is no correlation between the intents and methods and the overall outcome of a character.
	Alan Moore and his meticulous writing of Watchmen challenge our preconceived notions of "good" and "evil" and lead us to the idea that "good" and "evil" come from some other source besides characters’ actions. Rorschach feels empathy when he watches the building burn with a killer locked inside (VI, 25, 8); Jon exhibits empathy when he decides to return to Earth (IX, 26, 2-5); Veidt, however, fails to truly show empathy; his actions are rationalized, logical, and calculated. Moore uses Watchmen and Veidt as the media with which to express how "good" and "evil" are not surface descriptions; they do not just tell us who to root for, but who is capable of the complicated human skill of empathy. Perhaps we, as the reader, like "good" characters because their empathy makes them relatable. Adrian Veidt, as the character who lacks empathy, is the final piece to the puzzle, demonstrating that "good" and "evil" are determined by the presence of empathy. 	In Franny and Zooey, most people naïvely think Salinger details Franny’s journey in falling out of love ("‘I’ve missed you.’ The words were no sooner out than she realized that she didn’t mean them at all.", Franny and Zooey, 10) and the realization of loss: namely, her respect for everyday people and phonies ("I just wish to God I could meet somebody I could respect.", Franny and Zooey, 20) and her loss of Seymour who died in A Perfect Day for Bananafish. Repeated throughout the novella is the idea of chicken being holy, with Bessie offering "consecrated chicken soup" (Franny and Zooey, 196) and Franny seeking a chicken sandwich (Franny and Zooey, 24) as a comfort food. Chicken appears in another of Salinger’s stories, too: Just Before the War with the Eskimos. By studying how chicken is used in the short story and novella, we find that chicken represents God and religion. The use of God and religion suggests further that they are answers to death and loss, and that death is not loss but merely a transition. It is shown that the loss of people, more specifically, is negated by the lasting memories of a person.
	In Just Before the War with the Eskimos, Ginnie is said to have held onto a dead Easter chick for three days before disposing of it (Nine Stories, 55). Easter is the Christian holiday celebrating the resurrection of Jesus after being dead for three days. The parallel is striking – Ginnie held onto the Easter chick for three days in hopes that it would arise from the dead. Seeing that it hadn’t, she discarded the chick. In this parallel, the Easter chick takes on the role of Jesus; that is, God. When Ginnie held onto the chick for three days, it shows her faith in the chick and God. When she discarded it, it symbolizes her discarding her faith as well. This carries over to her encounter with Franklin when he gives her a chicken sandwich. Ginnie goes to discard the sandwich she found, showing that she has no faith anymore: "… she reached into her coat pocket for her purse and found the sandwich half. She took it out and started to bring her arm down, to drop the sandwich into the street…" (Nine Stories, 55). However, she does not discard it: "… but instead she put it back into her pocket." (Nine Stories, 55). Under the assumption that the chicken represents God, this shows that she has renewed faith in religion through her contact with Franklin.
	Franny’s religious faith came from Seymour and Buddy: Buddy describes it in his letter to Zooey: "That is, we wanted you both to know who and what Jesus and Gautama and Lao-tse and Shankaracharya and Hui-neng and Sri Ramakrishna, etc., were before you knew too much … That, anyway, was the big idea." (Franny and Zooey, 66). It is evidenced that Buddy and Seymour followed through with teaching Zooey and Franny this religious philosophy when Buddy acknowledges Zooey’s frustration with it (Franny and Zooey, 66). When Seymour died, Franny remained outwardly unbitter and inwardly unforgiving that he died (Franny and Zooey, 68). This is analogous to Ginnie’s disappointment in the Easter chick’s death, because she held onto something (Ginnie: the Easter chick; Franny: Seymour’s teachings). Ginnie was able to renew her faith, as shown by her holding onto her chicken sandwich. Franny is seen having trouble renewing her faith: she carries around a religious book and is repeatedly questioned for having it ("What’s the book?", Franny and Zooey, 8; again on 31 and 32). She tries following the advice of the book by repeating the phrase "I love you" to Lane (Franny and Zooey, 5).
	Franny has trouble letting go of Seymour and accepting his death, however: she says she can’t lend out a book (The Way of the Pilgrim) to Lane because it’s overdue (Franny and Zooey, 35), but Zooey tells us that, in fact, the book is from Seymour’s and Buddy’s personal library (Franny and Zooey, 101), and Seymour is now dead and Buddy is out of contact (Franny and Zooey, 103). This shows that she is coveting the book as though Buddy and Seymour, the two who taught her religion, were still around. While Ginnie accepted the death of the Easter chick after three days and subsequently lost her faith, Franny struggles to renew it without the guidance of Seymour and Buddy. She persists their memory, though, through a book from their personal libray. Finally, after Zooey pretends to be Buddy (Franny and Zooey, 193) and explains the secret of Seymour’s religion, Franny is able to recuperate and finally smiles (Franny and Zooey, 201-202). Franny finally learns the secret of Seymour’s religion: everyone is the Fat Lady (Franny and Zooey, 201), and the Fat Lady is Jesus (Franny and Zooey, 202). In essence, God is everywhere. To Franny, this means that the people she hates the most are God: "There isn’t anyone out there who isn’t Seymour’s Fat Lady. That includes your Professor Tupper, buddy." (Franny and Zooey, 201). Franny was originally perturbed by the idea that "any human being – even a Professor Tupper – is more valuable to God than any soft, helpless Easter chick." (Franny and Zooey, 165). The way she gets over this is by applying Seymour’s secret that God is everyone to her outlook. In this manner, she finds that were some Easter chick to die, it is not truly gone: it is merely transitioned into something else, since God is all around; everyone and everything. This is applied to Seymour, the deliverer of Franny’s religion and abandoner of the Glass family, by the knowledge that he isn’t truly gone; he has merely transitioned into something else.
	Seymour routinely reappears in Franny’s life despite his suicide: his books are hauled around by Franny (Franny and Zooey, 101); his religious advice is proffered to her by way of Zooey (Franny and Zooey, 197-202); and he is imitated by Buddy (Franny and Zooey, 103), who writes a lengthy letter to Zooey in the beginning. His constant reappearance and involvement in Franny’s life shows that he is still very much around. Zooey’s final advice about how God is everywhere helps Franny see that Seymour, who is the Fat Lady, Christ, God, is everywhere as well. Similar to how Ginnie finds renewed faith in the image of chicken, be it in the form of an Easter chick or a chicken sandwich, Franny is able to find renewed faith in the Eastern idea that God is all around.
	Seymour isn’t the only one whose absence changes into something else: with the loss of Buddy as an active family member, he is transitioned into by Zooey during the phone call with Franny (Franny and Zooey, 185-202). Franny, for a time, believes that he is actually Buddy, but then realizes that he is actually Zooey in disguise. This is an example of how the loss of Buddy is just a transition; who Buddy is, and the effect he has on the family, still persists. It didn’t matter that it wasn’t actually Buddy on the phone; the words were his and the effect was real enough from Franny’s perspective.
	Loss is but another word for change, and change is just a transition from one form to another. The Easter chick in Eskimos represented God and faith, and Ginnie’s cycle of belief was shown to parallel Franny’s own. Franny was able to renew her faith in God thanks to Zooey’s passing on of Seymour’s secret, which in turn allowed her to understand that Seymour was not gone. Seymour was not truly dead, because his memory still lived on, and his advice was still percolating through those around her, making its way toward her. Buddy, who followed suit of Seymour, similarly was not truly gone, as he was still being experienced by Zooey, who had a gratuitously long letter from Buddy. Seymour’s and Buddy’s library was still used by Franny, who took two books from it to college. The memories of these people and the things they left behind are the ways that Franny preserves those she loves. As Zooey says, "… who in the Bible besides Jesus knew – knew – that we’re carrying the Kingdom of Heaven around with us, inside, where we’re all too goddam stupid and sentimental and unimaginative to look?" (Franny and Zooey, 171). Franny may have been afraid that Seymour had gone to Heaven and left her, and indeed he may have – but Heaven was with her all along.		Many short stories in J. D. Salinger’s Nine Stories have at least two characters: a mature individual and a juvenile complement. Most people clearly delineate between parental love and sexual love, but J. D. Salinger’s short stories show that, through the awkward relationships between the mature individual and their juvenile complement and the previous and subsequent sexual tension, parental, familial love and romantic, sexual love are both very blurred. These conflated interpretations of love suggest that there is only one "kind" of love, of which people feel toward everyone to varying degrees.
	In "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," Sybil and Seymour have what appears to the reader as a very awkward meeting with serious sexual overtones. This is made apparent to the reader by Seymour’s attempts to placate Sybil ("That’s a fine bathing suit you have on. If there’s one thing I like, it’s a blue bathing suit." 12) and to get her to come closer ("Is it? Come a little closer." 12 in reference to what could very obviously have been a yellow bathing suit). Any benign nature the scene had was lost when Seymour "[takes] both of Sybil’s ankles in his hands." (12). While walking to the water, Seymour tells Sybil a story about "bananafish", commenting how "This is a perfect day for bananafish" (15). He proceeds to tell her about the tragic life of the phallic bananafish, in which they swim into a hole where they act like pigs and eat as many bananas as they can (15-16). This story contains many seemingly sexual references ("banana", "hole", the idea of gluttony when they eat as many bananas as they can), and when combined with the general flirting before Seymour tells the story ("‘Do you like wax?’ said Sybil", "‘Where do you live, anyway?’", "‘Do you like olives?’", 14-15), the story creates an uncomfortable situation for the reader. The sexual tension apparent to the reader is at its zenith when Seymour, controlling Sybil on a boogie board by her ankles in the water, sends her through a wave: "The water soaked Sybil’s blonde hair, but her scream was full of pleasure." (16). Seymour then takes Sybil’s foot and kisses the arch (17). Sybil’s rejection ("Hey!" on page 17) leaves the reader feeling awkward and embarrassed on behalf of Seymour.
	But nothing ever happens, and the benign nature that we struggled to hold onto – and eventually lost – stayed there the whole time. At no point did Seymour make a move on Sybil, nor she him. If read from a different perspective, each of these incidents would have been perfectly acceptable if Seymour had been Sybil’s father. Grabbing her ankles would have been fine, asking her to come closer would have been fine, and the strange story of the bananafish would have been more acceptable because he would have been merely trying to entertain Sybil. Most of all, the "scream of pleasure" would have been alright because he is just a father playing with his daughter in the water. Even kissing Sybil’s foot, one of the more sexual acts that came to fruition, would have been playful familial love expressed by a father to his daughter. That Seymour was completely ignoring his ready and willing wife (who was reading a magazine about sex in the hotel room, page 3) in the bedroom for some stranger’s six-year-old daughter would have been more than normal, as a father has a duty to play with and entertain his young children. But since Seymour is not the girl’s father, the entire interaction drifts toward instantly inappropriate. Sybil’s father is not there, and Seymour, a veteran of World War II, most likely wants to settle down as a father, as evidenced by his surrounding himself with benign interactions with young children (such as playing piano with Sharon Lipschutz, a toddler, page 12, and being with Sybil, page 11). Sybil has taken a liking to him (her jealousy and concern of him playing piano with another girl, p.13) and Seymour has taken a seemingly platonic liking to her, too. The stark flip that the scene can make by merely changing perspective is odd because it shows us what we do not want to see: that familial love and extrafamilial love are very close and often blurred.
	In contrast to an awkward blend of familial and romantic love, Salinger shows us a socially acceptable example in "Pretty Mouth and Green My Eyes".  In  "Pretty Mouth and Green My Eyes", Arthur calls Joanie a "grown child" (123) because he is looking for her (116), and we can tell that he no longer feels any romantic love for her since he was starting to get a divorce the previous summer (123). His search for his wife (and calling her a child) show that he is acting as her parent. If he didn’t care for her, then he would disregard her absence. Since Arthur doesn’t casually disregard Joanie’s absence, we can tell that he still loves her in a familial way. This is an example of how a romantic love conflates with a familial love in a socially appropriate way.
	In "For Esmé – with Love and Squalor," the narrator, who is married, finds himself having tea with a thirteen year-old girl, Esmé, with whom he had just earlier become enamored. This is clear from the text when he watches Esmé’s choir practice: "I scanned all the children’s face but watched on in particular, that of the child nearest me." (90). The narrator then proceeds to describe how her voice is the best ("It had the best upper register, the sweetest-sounding, the surest, and it automatically led the way." p.90). In this way, he describes his own infatuation with Esmé and leads the reader to suspect some kind of romantic undertones. On the other side of the tea table, Esmé is constantly trying to show herself to be older than she is. For example, she makes references to her hair and her looks: "‘My hair is soaking wet,’ she said. ‘I look a fright.’ She looked over at me. ‘I have quite wavy hair when it’s dry.’" (95). That Esmé is trying to show her value of her appearance says that she is trying to appear more mature than her age would suggest. Esmé’s vocabulary appears to exceed that of an average thirteen year-old would not use ("gregarious" 95, "She was an extrovert. Father was an introvert." 97, "intransically" 98, "posterity" 99, "squalor" 100, for example), which lends credence to her precociousness. Esmé also describes herself as having the ability to "write extremely articulate letters for a person [her age]." This, once again, shows that she is trying to present herself as having the qualities of someone older. It would appear that she is truly interested in the narrator, considering their face-to-face relationship only lasted 30 minutes ("... afternoon we spent in each other’s company on April 30, 1944 between 3:45 and 4:15 P.M." 113). The extreme attention to detail that Esmé exhibits in her letter to the narrator reveals her infatuation to its fullest: she counted the days since their tea exchange ("... forgive me for having taken 38 days to begin our correspondence" 112); she recounts the exact minutes and date of their afternoon ("... afternoon we spent in each other’s company on April 30, 1944 between 3:45 and 4:15 P.M." 113); and Esmé admits to "[thinking] of [him] frequently and the extremely pleasant afternoon [they] spent" (113). As readers, it is apparent to us that the tea conversation between a married G.I. and a thirteen year-old girl was peculiar, and the scene elicited the idea that Esmé was flirting with the narrator. It shows that Esmé’s infatuation is a romantic love, as evidenced by her seeking to change herself to be more to the narrator’s liking.
	But the narrator doesn’t truly reciprocate the same type of infatuation; his infatuation lasted only an afternoon, as noted by Staff Sergeant X’s clear lack of mention of Esmé and untouched letter collection: "... the writing table, which was a catchall for at least two dozen unopened letters and at least five or six unopened packages, all addressed to him." (105). He appears to most readily be taking the place of Esmé’s father since her father was "s-l-a-i-n in North Africa" (97). She describes her father as an introvert ("Father was an introvert" 97), which also describes the narrator in the shop (with his abrupt and terse responses). Esmé reveals that "[her] father wrote beautifully," which would accurately characterize the narrator who calls himself a "published short-story writer" (99). As a final token to show that the narrator, or Staff Sergeant X, is taking the place of Esmé’s father, she sends him her father’s watch in the mail for him to wear ("P.S. I am taking the liberty of enclosing my wristwatch..." 113). Esmé’s attitudinal shift toward the narrator was not instantaneous; it slowly changed over the course of their interaction, which left the narrator feelings of "regret and confusion" (101), naturally due to the mixed signals Esmé was sending. What started out as a romantic infatuation became a familial love after Esmé found out more about the narrator and was able to equate him to her father. This shows that love is a spectrum, with "romantic" on one end and "familial" on the other.
	"Down at the Dinghy" is a short story which includes an actual parent-child relationship. What is interesting to note, however, is the hypothetical retelling of the dinghy scene with the added twist that Boo Boo is not Lionel’s mother. While consoling her son, Boo Boo "put[s] a wild hand inside the seat of his trousers, startling the boy considerably, but almost immediately [withdraws] it and decorously tuck[s] in his shirt for him." (86). This is an ordinary action for a parent to take with a young child, and thus Boo Boo’s grooming of Lionel is representative of their familial love. Boo Boo disregards Lionel’s rejection, suggesting that she was never looking for a reaction in the first place and was merely trying to correct Lionel’s appearance. The familial love that is present between the two is taken for granted, however. When looked at through a different lens, that of Boo Boo not being a parent of Lionel’s, the scene becomes vastly inappropriate, demonstrating an awkward an unwelcome intrusion of romantic love akin to sexual assault. Boo Boo put a "wild" hand in Lionel’s pants (86) which clearly shows that the action was unsuspected and unwarranted. Boo Boo’s putting her hand down the back of Lionel’s pants "startl[ed] the boy considerably," (86) which highlights Lionel’s rejection of her action. Were Boo Boo not Lionel’s mother, the entire situation would not only be suspect but blatantly wrong. This is interesting because it shows that the personal boundaries, as defined by a person’s acceptance of familial or romantic love, are different depending on the context of the relationship, whether it is based on familial love or romantic love. One can imagine the same story between two romantically involved characters, and how that would play out. The personal boundaries here show the effect that different locations on the spectrum of love can have on the perception of an action.
	Although Salinger is the one who crafted the situations present in "A Perfect Day for Bananafish", "For Esmé – with Love and Squalor", and "Down at the Dinghy," they are not wholly unreal. Each of the actions that occur – the kissing of the foot in "Bananafish," the grabbing of the ankles, the reaching down the pants in "Dinghy" – has occurred before in a wholesome manner. With "Esmé", the narrator’s confusion of Esmé’s mixed signals suggests that love is a spectrum, ranging from romantic to familial. Salinger uses familiar situations, ones we have already judged, to stand upon as he changes our perspective to see not the quick judgement we have made of his stories but the unusual subject matter behind it. Salinger’s representation of these confusing situations is important because these realizations show that familial love and romantic love are on a single spectrum without an arbitrary division. As we see in "Dinghy," the division of what is right and wrong is left up to the people involved.	I live on the outside edge of the White Mountains in New Hampshire.
	My favorite mountain is Mt. Cardigan.
	I love the the top, the bald outcrop with the fire tower in the middle. On a sunny day, there’s nothing better than taking the quick hike up and then sitting and doing nothing for a few hours. Grab some friends, bring some beer and cheese, and just waste the day. Even if dark clouds roll in with a storm in tow, nothing could ruin Mt. Cardigan; take shelter below treeline and watch out beyond an overlook as the skies open up and rain pours from the heavens. There’s no such thing as a bad day in the mountains.
	Given that it’s only a 45 minute hike to the top and the mountain offers a near-unspoiled view of the southwest corner of the Whites, it definitely gives the most bang for your buck.

	But if you asked me what Mt. Cardigan looks like, I wouldn’t be able to tell you. I can tell you what everything else looks like from its perspective, but nothing about how the mountain itself looks.
	Sure, there are trails I can describe, but that does nobody any good. Trails are often indistinguishable.
	The relationship I have with that place is purely experiential.
	I’ve never sat down with the mountain to look at what it is, or asked it what it likes, or even studied its history.
	I just call up Mt. Cardigan whenever I’m looking for a comfortable adventure.

	I went up Mt. Washington once.
	Mt. Washington is considered the face of the White Mountains, it being the highest point in the northeastern United States and home to the the world’s worst weather. For years — truly, hundreds of years — people have painted it as the most prominent figure on the horizon.
	Everyone here knows all about Mt. Washington: standing on Mt. Cardigan, you just need one spin around to know exactly where Mt. Washington is. I can put it on a map, and I can draw what it looks like from three different peaks. I know what it likes, and I know it’s history. I know the effect of adiabatic expansion on the temperature when at Mt. Washington, and I know that 135 people have died on the mountain since the tally was started.
	I never actually summited Mt. Washington, though. We got 4/5 of the way up before having to turn around because we were afraid of dying on the rocks in the alpine garden near the top. My friends got stuck on a slippery boulder that would have thrown their bodies to the bottom of the Huntington’s Ravine without a second’s thought or care.
	I wouldn’t call up Mt. Washington if I were looking for a friendly afternoon.

	It’s like things have two different identities: that of up-close and that of far away. They’re not always the same, but sometimes they are.	It starts with Alison.
	Alison. Fucking. Lanois.
	Sweet girl, really nice, everyone loves her.
	"This is Joe, this is Jack, Matt, Chase, Tommy, and that’s Ari Brown."
	She always calls me Ari Brown. Full name, no middle, never just the first.

	I met her once at a party during Green Key, Dartmouth’s big party weekend in the spring. Obviously, as the stranger, she called me Ari Brown.
	I saw her again two other times, just in passing.
	"Ari Brown!"
	"Alison!" I didn’t know her last name. It was good to see her; I enjoyed her company, and she was always up for adventures.

	We were supposed to be dressing up and cooking dinner in a fancy apartment that belonged to the Dartmouth girls’ XC team, "we" being me, Jack Terwilliger, and Matt Pierce. Our plans fell through earlier in the day when Jack found out that the girls’ team was having a picnic along the Connecticut River in Norwich, VT. We were invited, and given the beautiful weather that graced us, it was a tough opportunity to pass up on. Matt decided to go for a run then, so it left but me and Jack. We grabbed our bikes and headed over.
	We actually got to the park before some of the girls did, notably before Alison.
	"Hey Jack! Hey Ari!" We were greeted well; it felt nice.

	Alison fucking Lanois eventually showed up and was immediately absorbed by a phone call. She eventually got off and came over.
	"Hey guys, sorry about the phone call. Oh look, Jack! Ari—"
	I was expecting her to stop speaking there.
	"—Brown!"
	No.

	This is not the first gripe I’ve had with being called my last name. The first time it was an issue for me, I was enraged with my perceived ostracization. The second time, I was more so.  But every subsequent time has desensitized me to the issue — maybe one day I’ll get over it — so for now, I just shake my head on the inside wondering when and how I’ll fix this situation.
	I don’t have to deal with being called something I don’t like. I get it, they’re just calling me by my full name. It’s not a joke. It’s not intended to be mean. I just don’t like it.
	And that’s ok.
	I’m allowed to have emotions that aren’t based in reason. I don’t have to define them. I don’t have to defend them. I am within my rights to simply say "I don’t like this. Please stop." They are what they are, and, within reason, they are free to be.

	There were a few of us in the kitchen of the track team’s house, and I was explaining why Alison is the worst person in the world and most certainly the modern incarnation of the devil. Jack mentioned that he had met some friends of mine from high school and told me about his meeting them:
	Often, people introduce themselves by giving their year. During the summer, most of the students are sophomores, but there are occasionally upperclassmen and freshmen. For those like me, who aren’t Dartmouth students, that question is tough to answer. I will generally lie for an hour or two, saying that I’m a ’14 (rising senior). My friends from high school will often just directly reveal their non-matriculation. They are thus easily identified as Hanover townies.
	Jack saw the opportunity for connection.
	"Oh, do you know Ari Brown?"
	Someone jumped in:
	"Yes, but don’t call him that. He doesn’t like it when you call him by his first and last name."
	I don’t know who chimed in to defend me — unnecessarily, as I felt the use of my last name was justified — but it means something. It means a lot. It means that I told people and they listened.
	It doesn’t matter if people think that I am justified or not in what I want, because they’ll still listen and abide by my wish.

	I suppose if I had to put my finger on it, I’d defend my discontent by saying that the use of a complete personal identifier every time makes me feel unnecessarily different. The addition of "Brown" makes the name "Ari" unexpected and unwanted. The use of "Ari Brown" as a single entity makes it appear as one word, as though "Ari" is simply not enough. You say "Ari", and people just don’t know who you’re talking about. "Ari Brown?" they must ask themselves, "Surely you don’t mean him."
	Oh yes.
	I do.
	After months of consistent, near-daily appearances, I do not desire to be treated as a perpetual alien.

	I was sitting on the porch of the Hanover Inn reading. It was a beautiful sunny afternoon, and I was waiting for my friend Will Smith to show up. We were going to go swim in the river.
	"Is that Ari Brown?"
	Oh god, who is it now.
	Ah, it’s my friend Mac and her friend Arielle Soriano. I had just gotten breakfast with Mac the day before.
	"Whatcha doin?" Mac and Arielle leaned up along the low fence separating the street from the rocking chairs by the Inn.
	"I’m just reading my book, waiting for Will. You guys just out and about?"
	We briefly chatted and caught up with each other, though it was mainly me and Arielle since I had seen Mac just the other day.
	"Alright, well we’ll let you go now." They finished and waved to me as they started walking towards the crosswalk. They continued with their farewells:
	"See you later Ari Brown!" Mac yelled from the street corner.
	My thoughts came to a halt.
	"Why do you call me Ari Brown? A simple ‘Ari’ would suffice."
	"Because you’re Ari Brown. You’re a celebrity."

	Meh. Fuck her.
	Mac isn’t even her real name. Mac is simply her nickname; her real name is Alison McCarthy.
	Risto Rasa is a Finnish poet whose works are primarily short poems on nature. His poem Kuutamo is about an anthropomorphic frog sitting waterside.

	"Kuutamo" means "moonlight", not in reference to the actual light, but, rather, the time and setting where moonlight is the primary means of illumination. Given that the author is Finnish and writing from a Finnish perspective, we understand the seasons and distribution of daylight to be more arctic than tropical. The presence of water implies that we are not in winter, as it would otherwise be ice. The author is from the middle of Finland in the lakes region, which means nights are short during the summer but extant nonetheless, contrary to how they are in Lapland (where the night disappears entirely for 4 months entirely, a fact referred to as "polar day"). This line therefore places us anytime between midnight and 3:00am.
	Nighttime in Finland, apart from traditional superstitions, is often associated with with the polar night of winter: the time of the year where most of the 24-hour day is taken up by darkness. Lapland experiences the most severe period of this, where the sun truly disappears, where the sun’s light fails to even bleed over the horizon.

	"Veden partaalla" is translated as "by the water", and while technically correct, a more precise translation perhaps might be "at the water’s edge". "partaalla" is the illative case of the word "parras", which my dictionary defines as  "brink, verge or edge."
	By the original translation, we have a setting of nighttime near water by an unspecified distance. In my preferred translation which makes use of the word "parras" by way of "partaalla", we have the edge, the brink of the water, as close as one can get without falling in. We have a traditionally superstitious time of day with only a modicum of light provided by the moon. The superstition is further compounded by being on the brink of the water, the very precipice of an element where humans are forever unwelcome guests.

	Here is our inspector: the frog.
	The frog, a common trope of fairy tales, represents wisdom and knowledge.
	Were this any other character, perhaps a rabbit, the motif of wisdom would not be available as a possible interpretation.

	This line is translated as "sits a frog, wiping his glasses on his sleeve." This takes the idea that the frog is a character of learning and study and realizes the motif in this poem. There is no doubt, at this point, that the frog is a deliberately chosen animal whose anthropomorphism likens humans to the studious frog, sitting on the brink of a void during a superstitious and frightening time that is associated with scarcity, inhospitable conditions, and death.

	Winter is death. Trees lose their leaves as fall arrives, animals hibernate, and food becomes scarce. Animals which would be seen everywhere in Finland in the summer disappear.
	The sun is gone in the winter. It briefly reveals itself as light and color leak into the sky from beyond the infinite space below the horizon.
	This is the time for "kuutamo", for moonlight. Moonlight, which emanates the most from the full moon, a further superstitious element.

	Kuutamo.
	Night has come. Darkness is here. There is no sun. Light is scarce, sight has become less useful, conditions are inhospitable, and stories of death percolate through 100,000 years of human history.


	Man is able to freely roam on land and make his home wherever he may succeed. In water, an additional hurdle of the lack of usable oxygen is imposed. Sight, the most used and heavily relied-upon sense, is largely diminished and often only usable within the layer of water closest to the surface. In moonlight, sight in water is effectively non-existant, making it a hostile environment. The ocean and the sea are foreign environments, and as much as humans have tried to tame them and survive on them, we have been only able to do merely that: survive.
	In the view of the mariner and sailor, the ocean is a mother, but still an abyss worthy of fear and reverence. At death, one’s body is returned to the depths of the sea, to an unknown and humbling fate.

	On the very precipice of a great abyss we find ourselves at the moment of minimal environmental support. The water is but a facade, the surface being all we see.
	"Veden partaalla" evokes the idea that we are on the edge of a terrific void whose contents are unknown and beg inspection.

	The often-anthropomorphized fauna of wisdom wipes his glasses on his sleeve, an action representing thought. The frog meditates on the infinity in front of him, the water, and the infinity within, his thoughts.

	We do not know if our protagonist will succeed — we do not even know what the plot, mission, goal even is. We simply know that he is found in the midst of it all before he attacks the situation.
	When he stares into the abyss, the abyss stares back.	It should be January, I think. We’re sitting in a café, half because it’s the trendy thing to do, half because it’s a convenient place to sit undisturbed where you can just talk.
	Wait, sorry, it’s not January. My mistake. You were suuuuuuuuper busy, I guess, during the first week of classes, so you said you’d contact me in the coming weeks. PERSON-1 reached out to me to get lunch. Eventually he and I met up and just talked, which was cool, and I’m assuming word got back to you. Sure enough, you texted me saying that no, you hadn’t forgotten, you’re just busy. So I guess it’s February now.
	Wait, my bad. It’s not February. It’s April. Mid April. And I just saw you in North Quad. I swear it was just coincidence — North Quad is the only place that has a laptop charger that I can use — but there you were, doing work. I was pretty shocked to see you there.
	"Oh, hey!" I tried to be friendly but not overwhelming.
	"Hi." You’re whelming. Whelming? Is that a word? We’ll just go with "underwhelming".
	Surprised to see me, I’m sure, and wholly apathetic. This is the word PERSON-1 used to describe your feelings towards me, so of course it’s now what I associate you with.
	So I guess it’ll be the end of April or beginning of May or maybe before commencement or after or whatever I suppose it doesn’t really matter when it is because we’re never actually going to meet up. I’m getting a little frustrated now because I feel like I’m talking to a wall: no response, no emotion, no nothing. This isn’t about you. It’s not even about us. No, in classic Ari fashion, this is about me.

	Let’s say, hypothetically speaking, of course, that the stars align, hell freezes over, and we’re in Amer’s. We met there once in September, remember? That was actually a pretty nice engagement. Really civil, really pleasant, everything copacetic. You were funny, talkative — it was a great time. But let’s pull away from the past for a minute:
	I’d be sitting there since I get there early, and I’d bring a book since you always arrive late. A finnish book, just for the added punch of why things ended the way they did. Oh god, there’s so much symbolism here I’m teeming with excitement. Would you notice? Would anyone notice? Is it too subtle? Good. I’m not trying to be mean. I’m not looking for a reaction. I’m looking for a pair of ears.
	You arrive, probably looking stunning, as you always do. You sit down across from me. My heart begins to race. Shit, I’ve thought about this so often. About sitting with you. Talking with you. Nah, not with. To. Talking to you. This is my chance to get this weight off my shoulders. I need to get this guilt off my chest. You’ve moved on, you’re free — but I’m not. For some reason, I’m still held captive. I’ve got a few dangling chains on me that I need your help to remove.

	I went through a similar set of emotions our sophomore year about a different girl. After a year and a half of awkwardly avoiding her, we got coffee. Just to chat. And so we did. And I apologized. It felt amazing: she forgave me, said I didn’t do anything wrong, and we just laughed it off.
	I fear this story will not parallel ours so well.

	You sit down across from me. Same table as our last rendezvous. But it’s all different. Do you know what’s coming? Probably not. I’m probably just that guy who can’t let go. But help me learn to.
	"Hey, how ya doing?" I open casually. I’ve practiced that with many people over the years. My absolute hunger and need for human connection and interaction has helped me get those introductions down to a science.
	"Hey, not bad, just finishing up exams. I’m suuuuuuuuuuper busy." Predictable, but this is the part of the dance that’s supposed to be.

	The wheels in my brain keep turning. I have no idea what to say next. What is my goal? What do I want to do? Do I have a hidden agenda? Hell yes I do.
	Keep it cool. Just play it smooth. When the opportunity comes to you — and it will — that’s when you can say it.

	Say what, though?
	"I’m sorry." No, no, that’s not it. Are you sorry?
	Yes, I am.
		What for?
	For breaking up with her.
		Are you?
	No. Yes. No. Well. The way I did it wasn’t the best.
Are you sure? You were calm, you still showed emotion, it was something you two talked about…
	Yeah but I was wrong to. I wish — or wished — I was still dating her.
But what about everything you learned? You know things now that you couldn’t have even dreamed of knowing back then.
	I know now I’m a monster.
		So you have an appetite for people.
	Yes, but it’s not okay.
		Sure it is. Why isn’t it? What are you doing wrong?
	Well, it’s not right.
Is anything you do? Is anything anyone does? I wasn’t aware there was an answer key for life.
	Well… I used her.
		For money?
	No.
		For sex?
	No.
		For love?
	Yes? No.
		For power? For knowledge?
For knowledge. For what I gained. I walked into that all as though it were a classroom. I walked into her knowing that I would walk away with gold in the form of knowledge.
		Why is that wrong?
	Because it’s disingenuous.
How should you walk into a relationship? How should you meet people? What should your intentions be? Do you know them all at the start? I’m trying to help you out here, buddy, but you’re not making it easy. You feel guilty for wanting something. Was it really knowledge? It was knowledge of yourself. Yeah, that’s it. You feel guilty because it was about you and your relation to the world and people around you.
	How do I tell her that?
		Do you have to?
	—
		That was rhetorical.

Start off by telling her the facts. Don’t jump to conclusions. You don’t have to reach an ending, you just have to give her enough pieces to formulate one on her own.
	"I feel guilty."
	"Why?"
	Because I trashed your heart.
Wow buddy, that gives yourself quite some credit. You know what any girl is gonna say to that?
Yes. It’s stupid, I know. But she fucking CRIED when I left. All that girl knows is composure. And I guess I’m forcing her into a position where she either admits to having lost it before or she loses it now. What do I do?
		You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make it drink.

	"Because I — because we had built something together that was pretty cool and special and I broke it. And what’s worse is I gave the appearance that it didn’t hurt. Because it did."
		Not bad, not bad. Keep going.
	"And I want you to know that I’m sorry. And it eats away at me." Do I monologue it or do I engage her in discourse?
		Well, you did say this was about you.
	"And I want it to stop. I want to stop thinking and wondering about it all. I know myself a lot better now, both from you and from sleeping around. I just… miss things?" Ugh, not the message I’m trying to send, even though subliminally it totally is. "And that’s okay, because I know I always will, like anyone does with anything good. But I need to move on. I just can’t. I need your help. I want to start over and be friends or whatever. Maybe grab some coffee, just chat. Go out to a party. I’d say do dumb shit together, but I know that’s not your style."
For the love of God, don’t say that last part to her. Ostracize her some more, why don’t you.
	"I’m sorry for breaking the sand castle that we built. It was pretty cool, and even if you don’t care anymore, I just want you to know that I did and I do." Hm, that makes it seem like I still am in like with her and I haven’t moved on slash don’t want to.

	"See, your problem is that you collect people. You go around and find new and interesting people to do new and interesting things to do. And then you put them away and move on to next one. But it’s not like you ignore the people you’ve already met, you just… keep going. You never stop. You never can just be happy with what you have." I feel so validated. It was meant as an insult when someone first told me that, but I took it as a compliment.
	I want to tell you that I’ll always be there, but I can’t. Well, I can, but it’ll be tough for me because I know you’ll never willingly see me again. It’s like after I shattered what we made and left, I’ve been barred from returning to the scene. I can’t tell if you’ve actually moved on that much, that the fact that you cried when I left means nothing, that I was just a blip on the radar. That I have 13 letters from you in a manila envelope in my room, and they’re nothing. You can try to tell me you don’t care all you want, but I’ll never totally believe you.
	I’ll be honest, I’m almost sold. You move on and I am worth less to you than how I value myself, then that’s that: you’re gone. But I have this feeling that that’s not the case. I have no evidence, no proof, no reality. Just thoughts and suspicions.

	You’ve changed me and helped me grow. I sense that maybe I’ve done the same for you? You’re graduating in four years now instead of three. You have a social life and go to parties. That’s pretty much everything that I encapsulate. I am not a well-rounded person; I exist solely to socialize. And evidently, from what PERSON-1 has told me, that rubbed off on you a little.

	I’m looking at you. Waiting for some kind of response. I want you to break composure. I’ve got an ultimate goal of how this goes down, but it’s not going to follow that route.

	You open your mouth and begin to speak.

	I don’t even know what you’d say. What would you do? You wouldn’t crack. I just showed my hand and went all in and was ready to lose and walk away with a cracked smile but a lighter load. You’re sitting there with your cards close to your chest, chips neatly stacked on the side. There are only two things you can do: you can either call, or you can fold and go home.
	But here’s the catch: if you call, you have to show me your cards.
	The flop comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I raise.
	The turn comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I raise.
	The river comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I bet the farm. I’m ready to move out and on, to give this whole thing up. But I have to just see it one more time. If I was going to give it all away, you were going to see it — you were going to be an active witness.
	It’s time to show our hands. Mine has been shown since we started.
	But what about you?
	Maybe I’m not ready to see what the cards really are.

	This would only occur should the moon turn red, the stars align, and hell freeze over. I have to wonder, though: if I really did change you, would you meet with me before exams are up? Is it cold enough for you yet?

	I think my biggest fear is that you feel nothing. I have this history, this connection, and it goes — nowhere. What does that leave me with? A chunk of time that just didn’t exist.
	"It was time for it to end anyways." You’d be serious and unwavering.
	Well, I mean, maybe. For sure it wasn’t working in its then-incarnation, but…
	"I’m glad we’re done."
	Tactful phrasing would’ve been nice.
	"I haven’t thought about you since. It’s only when you text me once every two months that I think about you for maybe a few minutes."
	I don’t know what to say to that.
	"I agree to meet with you because I feel bad for you. You can’t let go. You can’t leave me alone. Just — stop."
	I have a personal policy where I don’t walk out on things like this. I’m out of money, but I’m still calling. I just can’t stop. Is it hot in here, or is it just me?

	The trick is to not look like a martyr or an asshole. A better course of action would be to simply drop it in the middle of a sentence: "Hey want a soda oh by the way right or wrong good or bad I’m sorry not that you care because you’re strong and composed and don’t feel emotions and ‘regret’ is not in your vocabulary." Cue the part where I could then drill her for being heartless.
	Meh. This is a battle that I’m going to lose. I just need to make sure I lose gracefully. The only way to win and relieve myself of this guilt is to give up hope and fully submit myself to your judgement.
	The fact that I just quoted PERSON-2 and PERSON-3 from when they tried to convert me is interesting.

	But that’s not what happened, thankfully.

	We aren’t at Amer’s. We are at Comet Coffee.
	You are early. I am on time.
	You text a bit.
	We chat. You’re not as busy as I expected you to be.
	We chat some more. You ask if my roommate is still dating his girlfriend. You make my transition too easy. I’m glad that we would scrape close enough to this topic such that I could finagle in what I want to say.

	"I just want to say that I’m sorry. When we ended things last year —"
	Talk about hard. I can barely keep my head up to make eye contact. I can feel the blood rushing to my face. Heartrate increasing. God this hurts. I would never have expected this to be as difficult as it is. I continue:
	"— it doesn’t matter whether it was right or wrong, whether it was good or bad, whether it was mutual or not — I just want to say that I’m sorry for breaking something that we worked together to build and that I thought was pretty cool."
	It feels good to say it, and it never gets old. I’ve written it down, said it to other people, and repeated it to myself a thousand times in the past week; the rush never ends.
	But this is it, the moment of truth: you get to respond. See, I’ve seen this scene written out. I know what happens. I know what could happen. The only winning move is to not play. So as we walk towards each other in a narrow hallway, getting closer and closer to bringing up the dead and gone, I open the exit door and we leave through the side:
	"You don’t have to respond or say anything; this is just something I wanted to say." I try to look up, signaling that I’m done talking.
	"Okay." Your eyes dart to the wall.

	It was small talk before — intense, as always, but still small — and it was small talk after. Actually, I’m not sure if I can justly hate on it for being small talk. If it’s intense, isn’t it just be two people sharing interests? Do I perceive it as small talk because I walked in there — because I walk in there every time expecting nothing but hate and resentment and apathy? The true sign that you’ve moved on is that you’re not scared, and you play that to a T. I guess it just kinda sucks when in a conversation the other person doesn’t take an interest in you and ask you questions.
	I realize it’s a lot to drop on a person, and that it’s unreasonable for me to expect you to have a similar 3,000 words prepared on how you feel. I hope you think about it a little bit. I hope you’ll look back and think about what I said and maybe draw from it a thing or two. I don’t know what you’d draw, I just hope you don’t find it arbitrary garbage.

	I don’t know how to close this. It feels good to have finally expressed my guilt to you, but the best feeling came from simply figuring out what to say. I sort of expected a little bit more enlightenment from our rendezvous, and now, seeing that this is all I’ll get, I don’t know what to do or where to go.
	I think the biggest realization is that you hold nothing for me. I do not need you or your forgiveness to allow me to move on. I do not need your affection or to be the object of your desires again. I can move on all by my lonesome. I just wanted to check, to maybe go back one or two more times, just to make sure that there was really nothing there. Yup, there’s nothing.
	Time to hit the trailhead.	God, sometimes I feel like I’m drowning.
	wanna carve pumpkins this week and listen to my terrible finnish?
	I texted this Finnish au-pair, Niina, who lives in town. I wanted to practice my Finnish — I can feel it slipping away from my tongue — and give us something to do.
	i broke my arm last week and now have 6 pins and a sling. i can barely leave the house
	I would expect this text from a girl I was hitting on who was disinterested in me.
	oh shit, that’s terrible. are you too broken to even go get coffee?
	But for just practicing a language?
	maybe next week if i’m feeling better.

	And goddamn Vicky.
	This girl was a freshman in an upper-level French course. When she spoke she spoke with distinction and a wonderful accent. She aced the material, and, the class being one on oral and written performances, she performed unabashedly. To top it off, she speaks Russian fluently. She even speaks the way I do — the girl’s vocabulary consists of entirely too much profanity. Vicky has a boyfriend (some guy she’s been dating for years on end, if I recall correctly), but I don’t give a shit; that’s so not my desire for our relationship, but of course, who would ever believe that?
	Suffice it to say that all attempts to hang out have been met with homework.

	I was hungry.
	This is irrelevant to the story, but it sets the appropriate tone for how I was in a mind for business: get me what I want and no one gets hurt.
	It was 5:10pm. I only had to make it to 6:00pm, at which point I was going to go to Mongolian Barbecue for free food at some girl’s birthday party.

	MRun, the running club I’m in, was having a team dinner at Noodles & Co. after practice. I had a small window of about 50 minutes, and I had one goal to distract me from the food:
	Flirt with Rachel, the cute sophomore.
	I was flirting with her a little bit in line — I even helped her pick out what to eat, which means we’re basically dating. We were on our way upstairs when I got distracted by our friend Kirk. Kirk is an incredible guy, who unfortunately recently shaved his mustache, and we just chatted to catch up and make plans for lunch. Having lost sight of Rachel, Kirk and I walked upstairs to where MRun was seated. Bob, enjoying his very first day of MRun, was at a small table for four seated with five nearest the stairs. I saw him and his table look at me like meerkats.
	And this is where I was faced with my first real dilemma:
	Do I sit with Bob et al., or do I go try to hit on the sophomore?

	I wanted to sit with Bob and meet who he was talking to.
	But I also wanted to hit on Rachel.
	And this was Bob’s first day at one of my favorite clubs.
	But Rachel.
	But Bob.
	But hot sophomore.
	But Bob doesn’t get out to my clubs often, and I—
	BUT RACHEL—
	BUT I NEED TO SHOW BOB THAT HE’S NOT INVISIBLE TO ME AT MY CLUB!

	I decided to sit with Bob’s table for just a few minutes before jumping ship to make a fool of myself.

	I pulled up a chair between some girl in running tights and some girl, Sarah, who I knew was friends with Bob. I introduced myself to her, and—
	"Jessica," she said.
	"JESSIE!"
	"Her name is Jessie."
	"HER NAME IS NOT JESSICA!"
	"You’re the first person she’s going to be known as Jessie to." An honor, for sure.

	I honestly can’t even remember what we talked about. But we just talked.
	And she spoke fast. She thought fast. And she brought a lot to the table, too. She was willing to open up and bleed for me, for the sake of the conversation, for the sake of a connection.
	It felt like a breath of fresh air.

	6:30pm rolled around, and I was 30 minutes late to the birthday party, but it was just me and Jessie now. Everyone else at our table had left over 20 minutes ago.
	"So I gotta bounce now, since I’m now 30 minutes late, but before I go, do you do the number thing?"
	"Yeah," Jessie said, pulling out her phone. I was relieved to not have heard "sure", which is my most hated word in the English language. She took my number and we left.

	By the time I got to the birthday party, I was kicking myself for not getting her number. I had no guarantee that she was ever going to text me. But I checked my phone, and sure enough:
	Jessie
	LAKIND, I replied, hoping to continue the energy I brought to the table earlier.
	im really glad i met you u give mrun a good name
	Ho. Ly. Shit.
	My options were limited, at that point.
	I had no choice but to invite her out to hot chocolate at 11:30pm.
	Hey I’m sorry I was just chilling and lost track of my phone but i would def be down to Hang within the next couple of days
	Close enough.

	Act II: the Wolverine CuiZine Halloween Party
	An event catering to teetotaling freshman.

	The room was about 30x80ft and sparsely filled with maybe 15 people. We had soda and chips, and we had drinking games turned dry. And, of course, we had students in groups of 3-4 who didn’t know how to socialize amongst themselves, let alone with other clusters of people there.
	About two and a half hours into a painful grind of social lubrication, Bob and Sarah showed up.
	I should have bitten my tongue.
	"Did you bring Jessie with you?" Sarah and Jessie were friends from somewhere else; I hadn’t quite figured it out.
	"No, lemme call her."

	My problems with girls tend to derive from the fact that I come on too strong too quickly. Surely, having a girl’s friend call her and demand that she come to the lamest event this side of the Mississippi 18 hours after inviting her to hot chocolate and 24 hours after meeting her might be a little too much.
	The phone was ringing. Sarah was holding it.
	The phone was ringing. I was holding it.
	Wait, what?
	"Here, you talk to her!" Sarah was smiling to the point where she wanted to watch me screw this up.
	"Hello?"
	No time for thinking. A 70% solution now is better than a 100% solution later.

	Jessie actually came, surprisingly enough. And she ditched her sister to do so. We didn’t do a whole lot. I checked out of the party and we stood there talking about food, corn, and sugar while we tried to blow ping pong balls from a bowl of flour to a different bowl. We were both covered in flour by the end of it, but she didn’t care.
	"Do you want to go sit down?"
	"Oh god yes please, my legs are killing me."
	I’m pretty sure she came because she was genuinely interested in talking to me.
	She stayed for about forty minutes to an hour. I lost track of time, but it felt like a while.

	Act III: Confusion

	When Sarah and Bob were at the Halloween party before Jessie got there, she and Bob were talking overtly secretly about some text they sent each other.
	The next morning, I asked Bob about it. He was sitting in the reclining chair next the dining table.
	"So what was that text you and Sarah were guarding?"
	"Can’t tell you."
	"Why not?"
	"It’s a secret?"
	"Tell me."
	"You don’t want to know."
	"Tell me anyways."
	Bob put down his book, leaned forward, and pulled out his phone. He played with it for a few seconds.

	"She said she’s not sure Jessie’s into you."

	We talked on the phone for an hour and a half on Monday night.
	We went out for breakfast on Wednesday, a grand total of five days after I first met her. It was only for an hour, and the time felt stunted. I wanted more time to talk to her. She walked me to class and gave me a hug before we went our separate ways.

	Act IV: Phone Girl

	A story four years old, I rarely think about it since.
	There’s no reason for me to write about it.
		To do so would be to give undue credit to it.
		Not to her, Phone Girl, but to the story itself.
	But there was a point.

	Act V:

	It was… fine.

	I could not stop talking about Jessie.
	"You know what’s awesome?" "What?" "JESSIE."
	I was thinking about her all the time.
		I had totally done this before.
	It was awesome. I love being infatuated with someone or something. It gives your life a purpose. It gives you something exciting to look forward to. It makes you feel alive. I don’t know how to describe it more than that; call me a hedonist, but it just makes me happy.
		You know how Phone Girl got her name?
	I was under her spell, and it was awesome.
		We spent 40 hours on the phone in the first two weeks.

	And then I didn’t see her for a few days.
	It was… fine.
	I was free from her spell. And it was cool, I guess, but I didn’t feel as happy. There was no invisible source of happiness.
		I didn’t care about writing about Phone Girl anymore.
	I wanted to bring back my stupid obsession. I wanted to feel blithe and foolish. It was tough, however, because I had lost my desire to talk to her.

	Concluding Act:

	I ate. I went to bed. I slept. I woke up.
	I ate. I went to bed. I slept. I woke up.
	I think it’s time to end this piece. No closing. Just an ending.

	Act VI: Monday

	I turned right from the doors on the southwest corner of the Modern Languages Building toward my bike. My phone buzzed. I couldn’t think of anyone who would be texting me. I had ended all earlier conversations.
	11/04/13 M Jessie LaKind
	Oh, this is interesting.
	Hey wanna hang out Wed?
	Fuck yeah, but i’m kinda busy all day so how bout you come over at 630 for dinner and then we go to trivia at 830 till 1030?
	Yeah, that’d be great
	Pretty sure that was the first time I’d ever not gotten a tepid "sure" from a girl.

	Act VII: Wednesday

	It’s 6:30.
	I’ve got the dough all made.
	I’ve got the toppings: her favorites, mushrooms and olives, and mine, pineapple.
	Dinner goes well. Jessie meets my roommates. We talk. It’s fun.
	We go to trivia. She meets more of my friends. It’s fun.
	We split to our separate ways afterwards. I made sure to touch her and flirt with her at trivia, clarifying my interest.

	Hey thank you so much for everything tnite i had a lot of fun, i just wanted to fill u in more about what i was starting to tell u today that I just got out of a serious relationship which was pretty traumatic and need some cooling off time. That being said I am really enjoying our friendship and I think you’re a really unique person. I hope you will continue to want to be my friend.
	What.
	For sure, absolutely.

	Jesus, I don’t even know what to say.
	I think I just want to retreat into my schoolwork.

	I went to bed almost immediately after I got that text. I was just done with it.
	I slept.
	I woke up.	I have worn my whites all of four times. They look good, and as I get older and look less like a fetus, they look even better. So you can imagine my excitement when I realized I was going to get to travel cross-country in my whites.
	It’s not just that I had the opportunity to look respectable and important in front of strangers from Manchester to San Diego, but that I was representing a team and group similarly respectable and important people. When I wear that uniform, it doesn’t matter who I am.
	I am simply a Sailor.

	I arrived in San Diego at around 9:00pm on a Sunday night, the night before my cruise began.	We mustered at 9:00am in our whites, all of us looking to crush some first impressions.

	Big guys. Big muscles. Shaved heads or close-cropped hair. Water polo players.
	The classic archetype of a meathead.
	How the FUCK am I supposed to keep up with them in physical activity? I’m just a runner who is cursed with looking bigger than I am.

	We were herded into a classroom where we sat and listened to an Ensign speak to us about how things were going to work.

	The Lieutenant in charge of us, LTJG McElmoyl, took the podium. He said some words. Some sentences. I’m sure I was paying attention at the time, but given his intimidating imposition of stature and personality, I was more focused on absolute posture and an unblinking appearance of attention.
	"You will compete."
	"You will compete with each other."
	"You will put out."
	"You will give 110%, 110% of the time."

	Day 2 was the day to put out. Our initial PST.