	Bread is an integral part of religious and civil life. Bread, be it leavened or unleavened, is used in communion, one of the holiest of rituals in Christianity. In civil life, bread is a staple of meals, particularly during times of hardship ("[During the Great Depression,] children would go to school with nothing in their lunch buckets but … a scrap of bread with lard smeared on it.", 198). Most people disregard the importance of the symbol of bread in the book, casting it aside as though it represented only times of hardship and times of plenty. Marilynne Robinson takes the divine importance of bread and uses it to highlights the forgiveness between characters. More specifically, the use of bread to highlight forgiveness suggests a parallel between the father-son relationships of the Ames family. 
	Bread accepts its first connection to divinity in Mark 14:22 of the New Testament, where Jesus says "And as they were eating, he took bread, and when he had blessed, he brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take ye: this is my body." Jesus declares the blessed bread as a metaphor for his body, which in some interpretations is not a metaphor for Christ’s body but rather the literal body of Christ. In Matt 13:33, the Bible says "The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven," which provides further liturgical and clerical evidence that leavened bread is like the kingdom of heaven: divine and holy. On page 129, John Ames III cites the Lord: " ‘What man of you, if his son asked for bread, would give him a stone?’ ". When John Ames II asks his father’s grave for something equally, if not more, holy as bread, he asks for forgiveness; an altered quote would be "What man of you, if his son asked for forgiveness, would give him a stone?". The event of John Ames II asking for forgiveness from his father’s grave likens the bread mentioned in John Ames III’s quotation to forgiveness.
	John Ames III receives what was effectively communion from his father ("I remember it as communion, and I believe that’s what it was." 96), and then later mentions the importance of that experience, although fictional, to him (103). An important part of communion is accepting Jesus as the savior and eating the body of Christ, which is bread. Although at first there does not appear to be any forgiveness in that "communion" between John Ames III and his father, the bread was called "the bread of affliction" (95), which is exclusively from the exodus and the subsequent forty years in the desert. The bread (biscuit) had soot on it (95), which "affected the taste" (95). Upon closer examination of post-Civil War middle America, the hardships that the Jews felt when fleeing Egypt during the biblical Exodus (the only context in which the bread of affliction is mentioned) brought about the bread which is known as the "bread of affliction". This bread represented hardships of the exodus which were similar to those felt by people when John Ames III was growing up, as evidenced by the fact that the bread of affliction, the mark of hardship, "was often mentioned in those [post-Civil War] days" (95). John Ames II was trying to hide the misery of the times by acting as though the ash on the bread was clean and wouldn’t change the taste (95). While churches burned and the people lived in a drought (95), John Ames II’s bringing the soot-covered biscuit to young John Ames III was a way of asking for forgiveness for the times in which they lived.
	What remains interesting is that John Ames I tried to storm out of the house, taking with him only bread (83). This would seem as though he is forcibly taking preemptive forgiveness for leaving the family (85), but he does not succeed; John Ames II, his son, stops him in the doorway and does not let him pass (83). John Ames II’s wife then invites John Ames III in for a meal, which does not explicitly contain bread. In this manner, he does not receive any forgiveness, nor does he accept any forgiveness. If John Ames I had succeeded in leaving the house with his piece of bread, it would have symbolized the assumption that John Ames II would ask him for forgiveness. Although John Ames II eventually asks for forgiveness from his father, it is not until he has passed away.
	Bread is used throughout Gilead as a symbol of forgiveness. Since monumental moments in the lives of John Ames I, II, III are marked by bread and forgiveness, it stands to reason that the use of bread is a metaphor for the relationships between the men in the Ames lineage. Bread is not used outside the context of the Ames family, except for the references to God (130) and Jesus (69) and a short mention of lunch during the Great Depression (198). The parallel between bread and forgiveness affords us insight into the relationship between John Ames III and his son, where the son is given a delicacy of peanut butter and apple butter on raisin bread (117). This gift of bread to the son suggests that John Ames III is asking his son for forgiveness for his early disappearance. Forgiveness and Christianity were the two major themes in Gilead, and bread, with its holiness as described in the Bible, fit perfectly with both of those. The linkage of bread to the Ames lineage allows us to further analyze John Ames III’s guilt that he feels towards his son, the mysterious and unnamed character throughout the book.