

	About halfway through my Junior year of college, 5 years too late, I realized that I’m only productive in the dark. And it doesn’t matter if it’s dark outside; I need it to be dark inside. So now that’s how I do my work: in my room, alone, with the blinds pulled shut and the light turned off.
	But I hate being productive. Being productive, while great for making others happy, leaves me in a daze where I’m unable to socialize with anyone.
	"Hey Ari, did Theresa give you money for my hockey tickets today in class?"
	To quote Bob, "it’s like having a Skype conversation": reactions are always delayed.
	The pregnant pause is my cue to deliver a response.
	"Oh, right. Uh, no. Yes. No. Definitely not. She did not pay me."
	It all comes down to conflicted priorities, with academics and my social presence jockeying for first.

	My best work is done when my academics and my social presence are not at odds with each other. My dream job is one where I just shake hands and meet people, something that is about me and my interactions with other people. Wouldn’t being a Senator be fun? or an executive somewhere? a manager? a teacher?

	This was not my first rodeo as a teacher. I did a stint for a month and a half in 2012, which showed me that teaching was a fun possible career choice, but this was my first time as the star of the classroom; middle schoolers were easy to impress.
	I had Mrs. Desaulniers’s 6th graders on the first day. Even though I had gone to the same middle school myself, I had never been in this classroom before. Mrs. Desaulniers had been my 6th grade science teacher as well, so it made for an interesting point of connection with the students. I walked in on the first day wearing jeans, a button down, a tie, and a blazer. I wanted to present myself as formal and in charge, but not unapproachable.
	They were talking amongst themselves pretty loudly. They had all gotten themselves seated, and I had picked up my folder of attendance sheets.
	"Good morning, class. My name is Mr. Brown. Mrs. Desaulniers is sick today, and unfortunately you have me." If there’s one thing I can do, it’s be loud.
	"I am going to call out your name and you are going to do three things: tell me your name, tell me your favorite movie, and tell me an interesting fact about yourself. Facts must be interesting and may not be repeated." I did this for every class, and most students said "Pitch Perfect" if they were a girl or "Pulp Fiction" if they were a guy.
	I consumed their fun-facts and memorized useless information about them. I’d see them later on in the halls or in a different class and I’d ask them to expand upon their favorite movie, sports team, what’s their second favorite, or how they could possibly enjoy the movie Battleship. I mean, seriously, words fail me. It was just that bad.
	I held this routine for every class I taught, doing the 6th grade twice, 7th grade once, and 8th grade once. Everyone responded favorably to it, and I developed a sizable fan-base. Kids went home and told their parents. They told their friends. They’d see me on the street and yell out their car windows "MR. BROOOOOWWWWNNNN!!!!!!!!!" I felt like a rockstar, and it was cool to see how pervasive not my influence, but my presence was.

	Eight grade was an interesting classroom. The other grades were loud and impressive when I first rolled in; the 8th grade classroom was quiet for me. You could tell — you just knew, like a scent in the air — that they were plotting some kind of mischief or madness.
	They would sit there, entertaining themselves. The guys no longer look like they’re 6 years old; they’re getting bigger and stronger. The students have phones. Laptops. Things to do. Attitude.

	We were reading books during the independent reading time that was set aside for each class. I, being the teacher, did not have to read. I was on my laptop. I was on Facebook. Because that’s what I do.
	One of the kids looked up from his book.
	"I found his Facebook!" he yelled to any and all who would hear it.
	What? What does that even… Oh dear.
	In flooded 14, 15, at least 20 friend requests from kids whose older siblings I maybe knew peripherally or who maybe took the bus with me six years prior. I’d be lying if I said I didn’t enjoy it. They were so excited, too: so much chatter, complaints about my listed profession ("Persian Nightclub Owner"), people making fun of my pictures — I was almost sad that I had to reject them all and tighten my privacy settings.
	One of the girls — who kept coming back and trying to hang out with me during my free periods instead of going to class — keeps friending me every month. And every month I turn her down. I wonder how long until she forgets about me?
	It feels bad to deny these people any chance to speak to me again, but it derives from professional obligations. And besides, I’m still on the sub list; I might see them again one day, and they’re unlikely to forget me anytime soon; no one forgets a substitute.

	I went into the high school a couple days later to teach there. I was taking roll for a small class of only seven students; all of the others were out on a field trip for a different class.
	"Are you Ari Brown?" a girl with vaguely familiar last name spoke up.
	Why, uh, yes, I am.
	"Did you teach at the middle school on Monday?"
	Why, uh, yes, I did.
	"Christo is my brother. He was talking about you nonstop."

	I was finally famous.



	I was sitting in her bean bag chair underneath her bed. She was sitting at her desk doing work. I had grown fond of the idea of doing work in her room — despite that semester being my lowest-ever GPA — so I was reading my physics textbook to better understand how the fuck I could suck so hard at something so simple and straightforward.
	"We should do something tonight." I first slammed my book shut to get Masha’s attention.
	"Like what?"
	"Let’s raise hell and worry sheep." Masha was my first girlfriend.
	"Right, but I have soooo much work to do. I have to finish studying for P-Chem, I have to make flashcards, I have to update my resume, I have to…"
	I didn’t really listen beyond that because I had heard this laundry list before many times. Her life’s work was about carving out of this mountain of work a stone of a perfect GPA.

	"Well, maybe, what if — and this is a big ‘if’ — you hypothetically — theoretically — you stepped out of reality and for a night went out and caused trouble and got arrested." None of those things were her cup of tea, but a man can hope. In fact, it wasn’t even hope. It was about asking for a mile and hoping she’d give an inch.
	"I have an assignment due on Tuesday. I can’t this weekend."

	I get it, I do. I was always able to trick her into watching a movie with me, messing around, and falling asleep at one in the morning. There’s something considerably less intimidating about that that I, the epitome of an extrovert, just wouldn’t understand. It’s a quiet beauty, a subtle siren that perhaps to her felt like an escape from reality.
	I would stop pestering her after she gave her excuse. I wanted to go places with her, but I wanted her to want to go, I didn’t want her to go simply because I wanted to; it is not supposed to be a gift to me.
	So there we would sit, entwined underneath her lofted bed in a cramped cave of pillows, watching Finding Nemo, a movie of anthropomorphic fish, bright colors, and high contrast. Her room on those nights was the perfect environment for doing work, yet here I was watching a movie. I sacrificed my opportunity to see and meet people — with her — to do nothing. To cuddle and caress, I guess, because she couldn’t take 3 hours to go out and get dirty and meet some strangers for a night. Watch out, if you get too far away from your homework, the separation might feel genuine.
	I greatly admired her work ethic and the results she earned. She motivated me to study and do work, and although, ironically, I got the worst grades in my life that term, I certainly learned how to get good grades from her.

	"Would you trade your grades for a social life?" I asked Bob once. Twice. Several times. And not just him. Everyone.

	Checking your grades at the University of Michigan is no easy task. You have to log in and click through four different pages and wait for like three different systems to load at their dreadfully slow pace. There is no accident in finding out your grades; it is a conscious and deliberate decision.
	It was about 11:00PM on a Sunday night over winter break, just a few days ago. I knew I had blown it in two of my finals for two of my classes, but the other classes were still up in the air.
	I curled up underneath my blanket — grades were a touchy subject for me.
	I went to the Wolverine Access page.
	I went to the Student Business page.
	I logged in.
	I waited.
	I was taken to this big grid of links and information, most of which, I’m pretty sure, don’t pertain to me. I swear to God, they change up the order of the links every time I visit the page.
	I clicked on the link that said "View Unofficial Transcript".
	I selected the current term.
	I waited for the page to load.
	I scrolled down.

	I don’t think I would trade my grades for a social life. I think that’s why I like to do my work in the dark when no one else is around.

	3.769.

	What.

	My highest term GPA to date, college or high school.

	There’s a story I could tell about some guy who refused to play by the rules, and when faced with a dilemma he would choose the third option. But the details of the story aren’t relevant, neither is the subject matter, nor the author, nor even the verified existence of the story. All that matters is that it planted the seed of an idea.
	I thought that story was pretty cool because it gave me hope that I could have my cake and eat it too.

	Go for gold, shoot to kill, play to win.
	I finally found an excuse for my insatiable appetite. As much as I look back and see misery-filled kismet, it’s strange to note that I only got here because of Masha.

	I got to avoir le beurre et l’argent du beurre, but I shouldn’t have. I can stop running away from my problems and double over laughing out of breath with my hands on my knees, breath fogging in the cool air, and revel in my victory.
	But I shouldn’t have gotten away, and it’s only getting colder until I learn how to do it right.

	I think she shreds my mind and conscience because she was the first person I explicitly and instantly cut from my life. People had done that to me before, and it sucked, but I was not the one doing the excision. It’s a different kind of sadness when you are not the victim, but I am pretty sure that that’s what I wanted to feel.
	Want to feel.

	Maybe that’s not even the issue.
	To think of it, I’ve explicitly and instantly cut another person from my life. She would be the second, Masha being the first, and her excision never left me scarred. I suppose I am not Pavlov’s failure; sharper knives leave smaller scars.
	Consent for something is very simple: if one person does not want to proceed, everything stops. Game over. End of story. No further questions. But things rarely end that cleanly, and people tend to get frustrated when you cite "consent" as sufficient reason to end something. No. Your reason sucks. It doesn’t count. Yes it does. No it doesn’t.

	Erica Dombro. We "dated" for a couple months, probably around three, and had a lot of fun together.
	"So Henry called us boyfriend and girlfriend tonight to our faces." We were lying in bed together when I brought this up.
	"Yeah."
	"So are we boyfriend and girlfriend?"
	"I don’t know."
	I had played this game before, so I knew she might say something like "No, because you haven’t asked me out yet." I gave her space to do so; she didn’t.
	"Well, would you like to be?"
	"I don’t know."
	Oh, ok. Umm, I’m not sure what’s next?
	"Well, are we exclusive?" Goooood, good. Back it up slowly until you find the sweet spot.
	"I don’t know." Tickle-me-Elmo over here knew only one line.
	"Well do you want to be?"
	"I don’t know." She was incapable of saying anything else.

	This was quickly getting aggravating.

	"Well I’d kinda like to be."

	Eventually, after performing that script three separate times, I decided that the uneasy feeling it gave me was enough of a reason to end things. She came over and I told her I didn’t want to continue things. It was not a simple or clean cut, but rather one that took place over two weeks. I ended things, we found ourselves back in my bed — which is admittedly just a carpeted floor and some sheets — and then a week later I finally mustered up the courage to end things for good. I ended things, but it was not good enough for her. Things were tense.
	I knew what I had to say: nothing. I wanted to meet up with her and just listen. Or just look attentive, because my job was to shut up, and any listening I was going to do would just be gravy, maybe taking home an extra lesson or two for the next time I tried to date a freshman six months out of high school.

	We met in the stairwell of the UGLi, right next to the walkway to Hatcher.
	"Do you want to start?" I offered her the first blows because I could tell that this was not going to be pretty. I had a simple job: to not speak, to nod, and to agree. If she says I committed 9/11, I say I flew both planes. Which would be ridiculous, of course: I can’t admit to anything if I keep my mouth shut.
	Which, of course, didn’t fucking happen. To my credit, I was good for most of it, until I decided to point out and elucidate her selective memory. Voices were never raised, thankfully:

	"So I guess that’s it," I said. I was sitting on the steps below her because I wanted to make sure she felt empowered. "Shake hands and leave amicably?" I must’ve been high if I thought that we were gonna be friends after that.
	"No, but I’d like a hug."
	I didn’t want to give her a hug because I knew it would be terrible. I knew it would send the wrong message and would cheapen the value of one.
	I visibly hesitated.
	"Actually," she continued. "I’ll get one from someone else."
	I held my hand out again for a good ole conservative handshake.
	"No. I’m not touching you."

	Oh.

	Erica disappeared from my life for a while — forever, really — and I see her only in the occasional large group event for MRun, the university running club. We’re somewhat pleasant, but I can tell she has a special amount of hatred saved for me, judging from how quickly she ends conversations and how her words exist almost solely to highlight my shortcomings. It’s always best to simply give her the time of day and move on.
	I’ll tell you what, though: I have never looked back on any of the events, neither the relationship, nor the breakup, nor the aftermath; I got some of my highest grades when I was dealing with her.
