	In Franny and Zooey, most people naïvely think Salinger details Franny’s journey in falling out of love ("‘I’ve missed you.’ The words were no sooner out than she realized that she didn’t mean them at all.", Franny and Zooey, 10) and the realization of loss: namely, her respect for everyday people and phonies ("I just wish to God I could meet somebody I could respect.", Franny and Zooey, 20) and her loss of Seymour who died in A Perfect Day for Bananafish. Repeated throughout the novella is the idea of chicken being holy, with Bessie offering "consecrated chicken soup" (Franny and Zooey, 196) and Franny seeking a chicken sandwich (Franny and Zooey, 24) as a comfort food. Chicken appears in another of Salinger’s stories, too: Just Before the War with the Eskimos. By studying how chicken is used in the short story and novella, we find that chicken represents God and religion. The use of God and religion suggests further that they are answers to death and loss, and that death is not loss but merely a transition. It is shown that the loss of people, more specifically, is negated by the lasting memories of a person.
	In Just Before the War with the Eskimos, Ginnie is said to have held onto a dead Easter chick for three days before disposing of it (Nine Stories, 55). Easter is the Christian holiday celebrating the resurrection of Jesus after being dead for three days. The parallel is striking – Ginnie held onto the Easter chick for three days in hopes that it would arise from the dead. Seeing that it hadn’t, she discarded the chick. In this parallel, the Easter chick takes on the role of Jesus; that is, God. When Ginnie held onto the chick for three days, it shows her faith in the chick and God. When she discarded it, it symbolizes her discarding her faith as well. This carries over to her encounter with Franklin when he gives her a chicken sandwich. Ginnie goes to discard the sandwich she found, showing that she has no faith anymore: "… she reached into her coat pocket for her purse and found the sandwich half. She took it out and started to bring her arm down, to drop the sandwich into the street…" (Nine Stories, 55). However, she does not discard it: "… but instead she put it back into her pocket." (Nine Stories, 55). Under the assumption that the chicken represents God, this shows that she has renewed faith in religion through her contact with Franklin.
	Franny’s religious faith came from Seymour and Buddy: Buddy describes it in his letter to Zooey: "That is, we wanted you both to know who and what Jesus and Gautama and Lao-tse and Shankaracharya and Hui-neng and Sri Ramakrishna, etc., were before you knew too much … That, anyway, was the big idea." (Franny and Zooey, 66). It is evidenced that Buddy and Seymour followed through with teaching Zooey and Franny this religious philosophy when Buddy acknowledges Zooey’s frustration with it (Franny and Zooey, 66). When Seymour died, Franny remained outwardly unbitter and inwardly unforgiving that he died (Franny and Zooey, 68). This is analogous to Ginnie’s disappointment in the Easter chick’s death, because she held onto something (Ginnie: the Easter chick; Franny: Seymour’s teachings). Ginnie was able to renew her faith, as shown by her holding onto her chicken sandwich. Franny is seen having trouble renewing her faith: she carries around a religious book and is repeatedly questioned for having it ("What’s the book?", Franny and Zooey, 8; again on 31 and 32). She tries following the advice of the book by repeating the phrase "I love you" to Lane (Franny and Zooey, 5).
	Franny has trouble letting go of Seymour and accepting his death, however: she says she can’t lend out a book (The Way of the Pilgrim) to Lane because it’s overdue (Franny and Zooey, 35), but Zooey tells us that, in fact, the book is from Seymour’s and Buddy’s personal library (Franny and Zooey, 101), and Seymour is now dead and Buddy is out of contact (Franny and Zooey, 103). This shows that she is coveting the book as though Buddy and Seymour, the two who taught her religion, were still around. While Ginnie accepted the death of the Easter chick after three days and subsequently lost her faith, Franny struggles to renew it without the guidance of Seymour and Buddy. She persists their memory, though, through a book from their personal libray. Finally, after Zooey pretends to be Buddy (Franny and Zooey, 193) and explains the secret of Seymour’s religion, Franny is able to recuperate and finally smiles (Franny and Zooey, 201-202). Franny finally learns the secret of Seymour’s religion: everyone is the Fat Lady (Franny and Zooey, 201), and the Fat Lady is Jesus (Franny and Zooey, 202). In essence, God is everywhere. To Franny, this means that the people she hates the most are God: "There isn’t anyone out there who isn’t Seymour’s Fat Lady. That includes your Professor Tupper, buddy." (Franny and Zooey, 201). Franny was originally perturbed by the idea that "any human being – even a Professor Tupper – is more valuable to God than any soft, helpless Easter chick." (Franny and Zooey, 165). The way she gets over this is by applying Seymour’s secret that God is everyone to her outlook. In this manner, she finds that were some Easter chick to die, it is not truly gone: it is merely transitioned into something else, since God is all around; everyone and everything. This is applied to Seymour, the deliverer of Franny’s religion and abandoner of the Glass family, by the knowledge that he isn’t truly gone; he has merely transitioned into something else.
	Seymour routinely reappears in Franny’s life despite his suicide: his books are hauled around by Franny (Franny and Zooey, 101); his religious advice is proffered to her by way of Zooey (Franny and Zooey, 197-202); and he is imitated by Buddy (Franny and Zooey, 103), who writes a lengthy letter to Zooey in the beginning. His constant reappearance and involvement in Franny’s life shows that he is still very much around. Zooey’s final advice about how God is everywhere helps Franny see that Seymour, who is the Fat Lady, Christ, God, is everywhere as well. Similar to how Ginnie finds renewed faith in the image of chicken, be it in the form of an Easter chick or a chicken sandwich, Franny is able to find renewed faith in the Eastern idea that God is all around.
	Seymour isn’t the only one whose absence changes into something else: with the loss of Buddy as an active family member, he is transitioned into by Zooey during the phone call with Franny (Franny and Zooey, 185-202). Franny, for a time, believes that he is actually Buddy, but then realizes that he is actually Zooey in disguise. This is an example of how the loss of Buddy is just a transition; who Buddy is, and the effect he has on the family, still persists. It didn’t matter that it wasn’t actually Buddy on the phone; the words were his and the effect was real enough from Franny’s perspective.
	Loss is but another word for change, and change is just a transition from one form to another. The Easter chick in Eskimos represented God and faith, and Ginnie’s cycle of belief was shown to parallel Franny’s own. Franny was able to renew her faith in God thanks to Zooey’s passing on of Seymour’s secret, which in turn allowed her to understand that Seymour was not gone. Seymour was not truly dead, because his memory still lived on, and his advice was still percolating through those around her, making its way toward her. Buddy, who followed suit of Seymour, similarly was not truly gone, as he was still being experienced by Zooey, who had a gratuitously long letter from Buddy. Seymour’s and Buddy’s library was still used by Franny, who took two books from it to college. The memories of these people and the things they left behind are the ways that Franny preserves those she loves. As Zooey says, "… who in the Bible besides Jesus knew – knew – that we’re carrying the Kingdom of Heaven around with us, inside, where we’re all too goddam stupid and sentimental and unimaginative to look?" (Franny and Zooey, 171). Franny may have been afraid that Seymour had gone to Heaven and left her, and indeed he may have – but Heaven was with her all along.