	Your paper is about how failure will lead you to success. You start off with a story from middle school about how you tried out for your basketball team but didn’t make it. To prepare for it and to put forth a real effort, you went to a weeklong camp. You put forth your effort, took umbrage at the idea that the camp was not enough, and you failed. However, you continue to play basketball to this day. This is an example of where you did not let failure deter you.
	You do a good job here balancing narrative and discursive elements. This is something that much of the rest of your paper misses and could benefit from.
	You spend four pages discussing this, and it ultimately does not hold any extra weight in your paper. I feel this unbalances the whole piece and sets up a large expectation of what the paper means that is never fully realized. You talk about how you quit basketball after seeing the hard work it would require to get good — I’d like to hear more about this. Quitting something is big (especially in an essay about how failure enables you to succeed). You introduce and close this section as an entire essay unto itself which makes it difficult to have it play well with the other sections in this piece.
	Your next section is about applying to Texas and Ross and being accepted to Texas but rejected from Ross. Wait, or is it? About halfway through the section, you switch to talking about your job that summer and how you ultimately chose to stay at Michigan to study medicine. While I see what happened, it doesn’t feel thought-out and instead feels awfully confusing. I was expecting a section about how failing to get into Ross taught you some lesson, but instead read about how you want to be an orthopedist.
	I think this section could benefit from your opening up of the fact that you received a major acceptance and rejection within two weeks. How did that affect you? You say camp came in the way — that suggests you were hiding from it. Why were you hiding? What did you want and what did the letters suggest would happen? What made you stay? Can you not study orthopedics at Texas?

	You have a lot of good material here that you could expand upon and really open up. I think you should focus less on the basketball camp and more on the college acceptance/rejection letters. In fact, I’d suggest that you get rid of the first section entirely and focus entirely on the transition to college and what you ultimately decided to do.
