	Bob ran down the stairs into the pregame with his coat and hat on:
	"Attention party-goers: who wants to go watch ten minutes of a women’s club hockey game. There will be no fans and minimal checking." I knew that there had to be a girl at the other end of this.
	"Bob, pray tell — why is this happening."
	"There is a girl—" That was all the justification I needed.
	"Give me 30 seconds to grab a coat and we’re off."

	We ended up staying at the game for an hour talking to Bob’s crush, Kate. As we finally left after the game had been over for 15 minutes, after the parents of the opposing team had left, after they turned the lights out on us, we ran into Kate’s roommate who played on the hockey team, Remy.
	"Kate, I’m gonna head home and shower." Remy disregarded me and Bob.
	"Are you gonna go to Rick’s afterwards?" Rick’s American Café is the local club where people go when they’re really drunk so they can act trashy with other drunk people who are acting trashy.
	"Hell yeah, and if I see them there… I’m gonna deck her."
	The conversation was hard to follow, but it was sufficiently violent.
	"Wait," I chimed in "who is this person and why do we hate them?"
	"Doesn’t matter, they’re just some chick who’s mad at me about some boy."
	"… punch…" Remy animated her words.
	"… deck…" Remy kept going.
	"… kill…" She was not afraid of conflict.

	Wow, this girl is filled with hatred. She is angry. She must hate everything with a pulse; she just got done playing hockey defenseman, so of course she’s violent.
	I wonder what she’s doing for Valentine’s Day.

	I feel bad because all I seem to write about is girls.
	I’ve mentioned Bob offhandedly in a few essays before. He was always a side character in the stories which were about other people. I never felt bad, because the stories were never about him. They were about these random people in my life, minor characters who appeared and disappeared the same. Honestly, they probably read the same.
	Bob wrote an entire essay about me for his class last year.
	An entire paper.
	3000 words, 8 pages, uncountable drafts and revisions.
	Even Henry is writing about me. Not as much as Bob did, but I apparently have more than a cameo in his paper.

	There shouldn’t be any doubt that I thought about Remy on the uptick and downtick of every hour. Our conversation lasted 20 seconds; I’m pretty sure she doesn’t even remember meeting me, let alone my name. But I can’t put her down.
	Nor do I want to.

	There’s a quote I was told from a nice young girl who — whoulda thunk — hates me now. It belongs to her originally, but I remembered it because I felt like it was such a compliment at the time:
	"See, your problem is that you collect people. You go around and find new and interesting people to do new and interesting things to do. And then you put them away and move on to next one. But it’s not like you ignore the people you’ve already met, you just… keep going. You never stop. You never can just be happy with what you have."
	Now, I’m not so sure.

	I’m looking over everything I’ve written.
	Here’s a poem about Caili Dalian.
	Here’s my attempt to draw two different conclusions from the same set of events on my EOD cruise: did I want to go EOD or not?
	There are more: a piece about Alissar shutting me down, which I guess is really about successful relationships (Bob wrote a piece on the same subject but about the success instead of the failure); one about some random American I met in Paris; here’s one about Masha, my ex-girlfriend; and another; oh look, a couple thousand words about the job that doesn’t want me. For twenty-something pieces, it feels like they’re endless.
	And here’s an essay I wrote for class about what’s real and what’s not. The "Yellow Boxes" paper. In it, I stole boxes full of anonymous secrets from the library and studied them. I tried to see if there was any sense I could make from them before I realized that they were just scraps of paper: their corporeality came from the beholder.

	And here’s a poetic analysis I did of a Finnish poem. It happens to be my favorite poem because of the promise of a future: Kuutamo, by Risto Rasa. I was inspired to write an analysis while reading Nabokov’s unfollowable Pale Fire which is itself a poetic analysis. My analysis fits the theme of my writing yet again by being about the country, tongue, and subject which forsake me: Finland, Finnish, and literature.
	Finland.
	Finland.
	Finland.
	On my last night in Finland, I met this girl named Ane. Anetta Lukjanova. A very pretty girl who spoke four languages and lived la vie bohème. We talked for three hours that night and then met up for coffee the next morning. She helped me get to the airport. We exchanged contact information and occasionally talk. Rarely. We rarely talk. She now lives in London with some boy, some English kid who also lives la même vie bohème.

	I had a dream last night that I kissed her.
	It felt almost real.
	It felt good enough.