	It should be January, I think. We’re sitting in a café, half because it’s the trendy thing to do, half because it’s a convenient place to sit undisturbed where you can just talk.
	Wait, sorry, it’s not January. My mistake. You were suuuuuuuuper busy, I guess, during the first week of classes, so you said you’d contact me in the coming weeks. PERSON-1 reached out to me to get lunch. Eventually he and I met up and just talked, which was cool, and I’m assuming word got back to you. Sure enough, you texted me saying that no, you hadn’t forgotten, you’re just busy. So I guess it’s February now.
	Wait, my bad. It’s not February. It’s April. Mid April. And I just saw you in North Quad. I swear it was just coincidence — North Quad is the only place that has a laptop charger that I can use — but there you were, doing work. I was pretty shocked to see you there.
	“Oh, hey!” I tried to be friendly but not overwhelming.
	“Hi.” You’re whelming. Whelming? Is that a word? We’ll just go with “underwhelming”.
	Surprised to see me, I’m sure, and wholly apathetic. This is the word PERSON-1 used to describe your feelings towards me, so of course it’s now what I associate you with.
	So I guess it’ll be the end of April or beginning of May or maybe before commencement or after or whatever I suppose it doesn’t really matter when it is because we’re never actually going to meet up. I’m getting a little frustrated now because I feel like I’m talking to a wall: no response, no emotion, no nothing. This isn’t about you. It’s not even about us. No, in classic Ari fashion, this is about me.

	Let’s say, hypothetically speaking, of course, that the stars align, hell freezes over, and we’re in Amer’s. We met there once in September, remember? That was actually a pretty nice engagement. Really civil, really pleasant, everything copacetic. You were funny, talkative — it was a great time. But let’s pull away from the past for a minute:
	I’d be sitting there since I get there early, and I’d bring a book since you always arrive late. A finnish book, just for the added punch of why things ended the way they did. Oh god, there’s so much symbolism here I’m teeming with excitement. Would you notice? Would anyone notice? Is it too subtle? Good. I’m not trying to be mean. I’m not looking for a reaction. I’m looking for a pair of ears.
	You arrive, probably looking stunning, as you always do. You sit down across from me. My heart begins to race. Shit, I’ve thought about this so often. About sitting with you. Talking with you. Nah, not with. To. Talking to you. This is my chance to get this weight off my shoulders. I need to get this guilt off my chest. You’ve moved on, you’re free — but I’m not. For some reason, I’m still held captive. I’ve got a few dangling chains on me that I need your help to remove.

	I went through a similar set of emotions our sophomore year about a different girl. After a year and a half of awkwardly avoiding her, we got coffee. Just to chat. And so we did. And I apologized. It felt amazing: she forgave me, said I didn’t do anything wrong, and we just laughed it off.
	I fear this story will not parallel ours so well.

	You sit down across from me. Same table as our last rendezvous. But it’s all different. Do you know what’s coming? Probably not. I’m probably just that guy who can’t let go. But help me learn to.
	“Hey, how ya doing?” I open casually. I’ve practiced that with many people over the years. My absolute hunger and need for human connection and interaction has helped me get those introductions down to a science.
	“Hey, not bad, just finishing up exams. I’m suuuuuuuuuuper busy.” Predictable, but this is the part of the dance that’s supposed to be.

	The wheels in my brain keep turning. I have no idea what to say next. What is my goal? What do I want to do? Do I have a hidden agenda? Hell yes I do.
	Keep it cool. Just play it smooth. When the opportunity comes to you — and it will — that’s when you can say it.

	Say what, though?
	“I’m sorry.” No, no, that’s not it. Are you sorry?
	Yes, I am.
		What for?
	For breaking up with her.
		Are you?
	No. Yes. No. Well. The way I did it wasn’t the best.
Are you sure? You were calm, you still showed emotion, it was something you two talked about…
	Yeah but I was wrong to. I wish — or wished — I was still dating her.
But what about everything you learned? You know things now that you couldn’t have even dreamed of knowing back then.
	I know now I’m a monster.
		So you have an appetite for people.
	Yes, but it’s not okay.
		Sure it is. Why isn’t it? What are you doing wrong?
	Well, it’s not right.
Is anything you do? Is anything anyone does? I wasn’t aware there was an answer key for life.
	Well… I used her.
		For money?
	No.
		For sex?
	No.
		For love?
	Yes? No.
		For power? For knowledge?
For knowledge. For what I gained. I walked into that all as though it were a classroom. I walked into her knowing that I would walk away with gold in the form of knowledge.
		Why is that wrong?
	Because it’s disingenuous.
How should you walk into a relationship? How should you meet people? What should your intentions be? Do you know them all at the start? I’m trying to help you out here, buddy, but you’re not making it easy. You feel guilty for wanting something. Was it really knowledge? It was knowledge of yourself. Yeah, that’s it. You feel guilty because it was about you and your relation to the world and people around you.
	How do I tell her that?
		Do you have to?
	—
		That was rhetorical.

Start off by telling her the facts. Don’t jump to conclusions. You don’t have to reach an ending, you just have to give her enough pieces to formulate one on her own.
	“I feel guilty.”
	“Why?”
	Because I trashed your heart.
Wow buddy, that gives yourself quite some credit. You know what any girl is gonna say to that?
Yes. It’s stupid, I know. But she fucking CRIED when I left. All that girl knows is composure. And I guess I’m forcing her into a position where she either admits to having lost it before or she loses it now. What do I do?
		You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make it drink.

	“Because I — because we had built something together that was pretty cool and special and I broke it. And what’s worse is I gave the appearance that it didn’t hurt. Because it did.”
		Not bad, not bad. Keep going.
	“And I want you to know that I’m sorry. And it eats away at me.” Do I monologue it or do I engage her in discourse?
		Well, you did say this was about you.
	“And I want it to stop. I want to stop thinking and wondering about it all. I know myself a lot better now, both from you and from sleeping around. I just… miss things?” Ugh, not the message I’m trying to send, even though subliminally it totally is. “And that’s okay, because I know I always will, like anyone does with anything good. But I need to move on. I just can’t. I need your help. I want to start over and be friends or whatever. Maybe grab some coffee, just chat. Go out to a party. I’d say do dumb shit together, but I know that’s not your style.”
For the love of God, don’t say that last part to her. Ostracize her some more, why don’t you.
	“I’m sorry for breaking the sand castle that we built. It was pretty cool, and even if you don’t care anymore, I just want you to know that I did and I do.” Hm, that makes it seem like I still am in like with her and I haven’t moved on slash don’t want to.

	“See, your problem is that you collect people. You go around and find new and interesting people to do new and interesting things to do. And then you put them away and move on to next one. But it’s not like you ignore the people you’ve already met, you just… keep going. You never stop. You never can just be happy with what you have.” I feel so validated. It was meant as an insult when someone first told me that, but I took it as a compliment.
	I want to tell you that I’ll always be there, but I can’t. Well, I can, but it’ll be tough for me because I know you’ll never willingly see me again. It’s like after I shattered what we made and left, I’ve been barred from returning to the scene. I can’t tell if you’ve actually moved on that much, that the fact that you cried when I left means nothing, that I was just a blip on the radar. That I have 13 letters from you in a manila envelope in my room, and they’re nothing. You can try to tell me you don’t care all you want, but I’ll never totally believe you.
	I’ll be honest, I’m almost sold. You move on and I am worth less to you than how I value myself, then that’s that: you’re gone. But I have this feeling that that’s not the case. I have no evidence, no proof, no reality. Just thoughts and suspicions.

	You’ve changed me and helped me grow. I sense that maybe I’ve done the same for you? You’re graduating in four years now instead of three. You have a social life and go to parties. That’s pretty much everything that I encapsulate. I am not a well-rounded person; I exist solely to socialize. And evidently, from what PERSON-1 has told me, that rubbed off on you a little.

	I’m looking at you. Waiting for some kind of response. I want you to break composure. I’ve got an ultimate goal of how this goes down, but it’s not going to follow that route.

	You open your mouth and begin to speak.

	I don’t even know what you’d say. What would you do? You wouldn’t crack. I just showed my hand and went all in and was ready to lose and walk away with a cracked smile but a lighter load. You’re sitting there with your cards close to your chest, chips neatly stacked on the side. There are only two things you can do: you can either call, or you can fold and go home.
	But here’s the catch: if you call, you have to show me your cards.
	The flop comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I raise.
	The turn comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I raise.
	The river comes out and you hold fast with your poker face.
		I bet the farm. I’m ready to move out and on, to give this whole thing up. But I have to just see it one more time. If I was going to give it all away, you were going to see it — you were going to be an active witness.
	It’s time to show our hands. Mine has been shown since we started.
	But what about you?
	Maybe I’m not ready to see what the cards really are.

	This would only occur should the moon turn red, the stars align, and hell freeze over. I have to wonder, though: if I really did change you, would you meet with me before exams are up? Is it cold enough for you yet?

	I think my biggest fear is that you feel nothing. I have this history, this connection, and it goes — nowhere. What does that leave me with? A chunk of time that just didn’t exist.
	“It was time for it to end anyways.” You’d be serious and unwavering.
	Well, I mean, maybe. For sure it wasn’t working in its then-incarnation, but…
	“I’m glad we’re done.”
	Tactful phrasing would’ve been nice.
	“I haven’t thought about you since. It’s only when you text me once every two months that I think about you for maybe a few minutes.”
	I don’t know what to say to that.
	“I agree to meet with you because I feel bad for you. You can’t let go. You can’t leave me alone. Just — stop.”
	I have a personal policy where I don’t walk out on things like this. I’m out of money, but I’m still calling. I just can’t stop. Is it hot in here, or is it just me?

	The trick is to not look like a martyr or an asshole. A better course of action would be to simply drop it in the middle of a sentence: “Hey want a soda oh by the way right or wrong good or bad I’m sorry not that you care because you’re strong and composed and don’t feel emotions and ‘regret’ is not in your vocabulary.” Cue the part where I could then drill her for being heartless.
	Meh. This is a battle that I’m going to lose. I just need to make sure I lose gracefully. The only way to win and relieve myself of this guilt is to give up hope and fully submit myself to your judgement.
	The fact that I just quoted PERSON-2 and PERSON-3 from when they tried to convert me is interesting.

	But that’s not what happened, thankfully.

	We aren’t at Amer’s. We are at Comet Coffee.
	You are early. I am on time.
	You text a bit.
	We chat. You’re not as busy as I expected you to be.
	We chat some more. You ask if my roommate is still dating his girlfriend. You make my transition too easy. I’m glad that we would scrape close enough to this topic such that I could finagle in what I want to say.

	“I just want to say that I’m sorry. When we ended things last year —“
	Talk about hard. I can barely keep my head up to make eye contact. I can feel the blood rushing to my face. Heartrate increasing. God this hurts. I would never have expected this to be as difficult as it is. I continue:
	“— it doesn’t matter whether it was right or wrong, whether it was good or bad, whether it was mutual or not — I just want to say that I’m sorry for breaking something that we worked together to build and that I thought was pretty cool.”
	It feels good to say it, and it never gets old. I’ve written it down, said it to other people, and repeated it to myself a thousand times in the past week; the rush never ends.
	But this is it, the moment of truth: you get to respond. See, I’ve seen this scene written out. I know what happens. I know what could happen. The only winning move is to not play. So as we walk towards each other in a narrow hallway, getting closer and closer to bringing up the dead and gone, I open the exit door and we leave through the side:
	“You don’t have to respond or say anything; this is just something I wanted to say.” I try to look up, signaling that I’m done talking.
	“Okay.” Your eyes dart to the wall.

	It was small talk before — intense, as always, but still small — and it was small talk after. Actually, I’m not sure if I can justly hate on it for being small talk. If it’s intense, isn’t it just be two people sharing interests? Do I perceive it as small talk because I walked in there — because I walk in there every time expecting nothing but hate and resentment and apathy? The true sign that you’ve moved on is that you’re not scared, and you play that to a T. I guess it just kinda sucks when in a conversation the other person doesn’t take an interest in you and ask you questions.
	I realize it’s a lot to drop on a person, and that it’s unreasonable for me to expect you to have a similar 3,000 words prepared on how you feel. I hope you think about it a little bit. I hope you’ll look back and think about what I said and maybe draw from it a thing or two. I don’t know what you’d draw, I just hope you don’t find it arbitrary garbage.

	I don’t know how to close this. It feels good to have finally expressed my guilt to you, but the best feeling came from simply figuring out what to say. I sort of expected a little bit more enlightenment from our rendezvous, and now, seeing that this is all I’ll get, I don’t know what to do or where to go.
	I think the biggest realization is that you hold nothing for me. I do not need you or your forgiveness to allow me to move on. I do not need your affection or to be the object of your desires again. I can move on all by my lonesome. I just wanted to check, to maybe go back one or two more times, just to make sure that there was really nothing there. Yup, there’s nothing.
	Time to hit the trailhead.