	Watchmen visualizes a story of good and evil in the story of the hunt for a killer. Alan Moore characterizes "good" and "evil" in the protagonists and antagonists. Most people think that these alignments are spread shallowly and according to the intents and means of the character. However, upon an analysis of how terrorism is used in the pursuit of "good" by Jon, Rorschach, and Veidt, we find that these characters are not as simply created as we had assumed. Their complex alignments show that "good" and "evil" are not polar opposites, and the rationalization of the alignments suggest that "good" and "evil" are not determined by the characters’ actions, but rather by the presence of empathy.
	Adrian Veidt works to solve impending doom of a nuclear holocaust (XI, 19, 5-8), and he, as far as the reader can tell, succeeds (XII, 19, 7). Veidt succeeds by setting off large explosions in major cities and killing untold numbers of people. This is, by definition, terrorism, as he seeks to terrorize people into peace. The legitimate intent of terrorizing the world into peace occurs when Veidt says:
"Unable to unite the world by conquest… Alexander’s method… I would trick it; frighten it towards salvation with history’s greatest practical joke." (XI, 24, 4)
Veidt uses terrorism to avoid war. He feels that fewer deaths will result from his act of terrorism than will result from the nuclear holocaust. Veidt’s ultimate goal is peace, which makes Veidt’s intentions "good". However, since Veidt is generally viewed as the antagonist of the story, his actions and overall intent are considered "evil". This naturally produces a contradiction between what the reader expects and what the reader finds.
	Rorschach maneuvers his way through the criminal underworld leaving in his wake broken fingers and terror; he breaks a man’s fingers with the intent to terrorize him into divulging information: "Won’t insult legendary underworld solidarity by suggesting you surrender name without torture." (X, 14, 4). The way he deals with criminals is depraved and violent ("Soft on scum. Too young to know any better. Mollycoddled them. Let them live." (VI, 14, 5-6)), but he still aligns himself with the police (VI, 15, 2). Rorschach’s use of terrorism in the pursuit of "good" is similar to Veidt’s situation, where he uses terrorism to realize his overall goal of world peace. The difference between Rorschach and Veidt, however, is that Rorschach is viewed as an antihero while Veidt is viewed as the villain. That two people who operate via the same modus operandi (terrorism for the greater good) should be viewed as so starkly different (good and evil) suggests that good and evil are not so different, and that they are merely two points on a spectrum that are not, in fact, opposites.
 	Jon was the original safeguard against nuclear war, because he is able to intimidate other countries into not firing their weapons (IV, 12-13). Indeed, he is literally scaring other nations into peace, terrorizing them for the safety of the world, following the definition of terrorism. Jon started out the same as Veidt, terrorizing the world into peace. He eventually leaves Earth, presumably to abandon his responsibility as a terrorist in the cause of "good". Veidt’s actions to prevent war, in filling the void that Jon created, are analogous to the common hypothetical question of a group of people and the railroad: if there were a runaway railroad car heading toward six people, and you could stop it by throwing a switch to make it hit, instead, three people, would you do it? In this case, Veidt is saying yes, he would. Jon has an even easier question, however, because instead of hitting three people in the best case, he becomes a tool for war and can directly minimize how many people he kills. An elementary analysis would say that Jon is not evil for not wanting to participate in throwing the switch, but by analyzing his inaction to prevent the death of a Vietnamese woman suggests that he is just as guilty because of his inaction as Blake, the man who killed her. Blake, while in Vietnam with Jon, shoots a woman pregnant with his child after she confronts him and slashes his face (II, 14, 2-9).
"Yeah. Yeah, that’s right. Pregnant woman. Gunned her down. Bang. And y’know what? You watched me. You coulda changed the gun into steam or the bullets into mercury or the bottle into snowflakes! You coulda teleported either of us to goddamn Australia… But you didn’t lift a finger!" (II, 15, 3-4)
Blake accuses Jon of being just as guilty as he is for her death. He highlights how Jon had the power to stop the murder but didn’t have the volition, thus making him partially responsible. As one who would be partially responsible for nuclear holocaust, he would be the opposite of Veidt, making him "evil". This conflicts with the reader’s natural assumption of alignment, showing that the difference between good and evil is less than initially imagined; the two alignments are not, as commonly assumed, polar.
	Watchmen highlights how our definitions of "good" and "evil" are not, as one originally supposes, based upon the means or the end. The actions of Rorschach, Veidt, and Jon show that good and evil are not so far apart and have many overlaps (such as the modus operandi of Rorschach and Veidt). Jon uses "good" means (leaving Earth, living in peace) and reaches an "evil" end (allowing nuclear holocaust to happen). Veidt and Rorschach use "evil" means to reach a "good" end. The fact that Jon is relatable as "good", Veidt is generally identifiable as "evil", and Rorschach is traditionally identified as the "good" antihero shows that there is no correlation between the intents and methods and the overall outcome of a character.
	Alan Moore and his meticulous writing of Watchmen challenge our preconceived notions of "good" and "evil" and lead us to the idea that "good" and "evil" come from some other source besides characters’ actions. Rorschach feels empathy when he watches the building burn with a killer locked inside (VI, 25, 8); Jon exhibits empathy when he decides to return to Earth (IX, 26, 2-5); Veidt, however, fails to truly show empathy; his actions are rationalized, logical, and calculated. Moore uses Watchmen and Veidt as the media with which to express how "good" and "evil" are not surface descriptions; they do not just tell us who to root for, but who is capable of the complicated human skill of empathy. Perhaps we, as the reader, like "good" characters because their empathy makes them relatable. Adrian Veidt, as the character who lacks empathy, is the final piece to the puzzle, demonstrating that "good" and "evil" are determined by the presence of empathy. 