	I enjoyed reading your essay "This is Michigan, for God’s Sake". You talked about the activities you have going on in your life right now, and then brought us into a vivid conversation between you and your friends about football. I understand how important an Insider Account can be; I’m considering buying one for Flotrack, which is for the world of elite running. First, you sign into the insider account. Then, Sunny proves to us his arrogance. And then he proves it again by declaring that Green is obviously not going to pick Auburn. You then focus more on your hate for Vincent Smith instead of indulging yourself in a trash-talk session of Sunny. You then proceed to talk about football some more.
	You have a style that is pleasant to read. I thought you deftly transcribed the audio and presented it in an interesting format. There was a very appropriate mix of narrative and discursive writing that both moved the conversation forward and brought us with you.
	Unfortunately, it reads like a novel which, while nice, lacked a plot. You go into the room, you talk about football, and you leave. What happened in there? Nothing. You talk about football and discuss Michigan recruits. You tease us with conflict by talking about how much of a dick Sunny is — I want to read more about that. Instead of haphazardly commenting on how annoying he is, start selling it to us. How does his dickishness make you feel? Does his arrogance upset you? Does he have a history of this? Tell us about another time Sunny has been arrogant, or even a time where he wasn’t arrogant but made you particularly mad. Basically, I want him to be the bad guy in your story.
	Your story lacks a turning point or any kind of conflict. Really, anything will do. You talk about football in a way that is inaccessible to the average joe. I don’t follow football and I don’t know anything about it. Can you explain the core concept of what you discuss so that I can understand it? The actual details of the football discussion are irrelevant to what you’re talking about. To me, you’re talking about the effect of various football players on the Michigan team.
	I think you have a lot of good material here, but it needs some refining and remolding. Take it from the inside of your mind during a conversation and make it the inside of the conversation in general through your lens.
