	God, sometimes I feel like I’m drowning.
	wanna carve pumpkins this week and listen to my terrible finnish?
	I texted this Finnish au-pair, Niina, who lives in town. I wanted to practice my Finnish — I can feel it slipping away from my tongue — and give us something to do.
	i broke my arm last week and now have 6 pins and a sling. i can barely leave the house
	I would expect this text from a girl I was hitting on who was disinterested in me.
	oh shit, that’s terrible. are you too broken to even go get coffee?
	But for just practicing a language?
	maybe next week if i’m feeling better.

	And goddamn Vicky.
	This girl was a freshman in an upper-level French course. When she spoke she spoke with distinction and a wonderful accent. She aced the material, and, the class being one on oral and written performances, she performed unabashedly. To top it off, she speaks Russian fluently. She even speaks the way I do — the girl’s vocabulary consists of entirely too much profanity. Vicky has a boyfriend (some guy she’s been dating for years on end, if I recall correctly), but I don’t give a shit; that’s so not my desire for our relationship, but of course, who would ever believe that?
	Suffice it to say that all attempts to hang out have been met with homework.

	I was hungry.
	This is irrelevant to the story, but it sets the appropriate tone for how I was in a mind for business: get me what I want and no one gets hurt.
	It was 5:10pm. I only had to make it to 6:00pm, at which point I was going to go to Mongolian Barbecue for free food at some girl’s birthday party.

	MRun, the running club I’m in, was having a team dinner at Noodles & Co. after practice. I had a small window of about 50 minutes, and I had one goal to distract me from the food:
	Flirt with Rachel, the cute sophomore.
	I was flirting with her a little bit in line — I even helped her pick out what to eat, which means we’re basically dating. We were on our way upstairs when I got distracted by our friend Kirk. Kirk is an incredible guy, who unfortunately recently shaved his mustache, and we just chatted to catch up and make plans for lunch. Having lost sight of Rachel, Kirk and I walked upstairs to where MRun was seated. Bob, enjoying his very first day of MRun, was at a small table for four seated with five nearest the stairs. I saw him and his table look at me like meerkats.
	And this is where I was faced with my first real dilemma:
	Do I sit with Bob et al., or do I go try to hit on the sophomore?

	I wanted to sit with Bob and meet who he was talking to.
	But I also wanted to hit on Rachel.
	And this was Bob’s first day at one of my favorite clubs.
	But Rachel.
	But Bob.
	But hot sophomore.
	But Bob doesn’t get out to my clubs often, and I—
	BUT RACHEL—
	BUT I NEED TO SHOW BOB THAT HE’S NOT INVISIBLE TO ME AT MY CLUB!

	I decided to sit with Bob’s table for just a few minutes before jumping ship to make a fool of myself.

	I pulled up a chair between some girl in running tights and some girl, Sarah, who I knew was friends with Bob. I introduced myself to her, and—
	"Jessica," she said.
	"JESSIE!"
	"Her name is Jessie."
	"HER NAME IS NOT JESSICA!"
	"You’re the first person she’s going to be known as Jessie to." An honor, for sure.

	I honestly can’t even remember what we talked about. But we just talked.
	And she spoke fast. She thought fast. And she brought a lot to the table, too. She was willing to open up and bleed for me, for the sake of the conversation, for the sake of a connection.
	It felt like a breath of fresh air.

	6:30pm rolled around, and I was 30 minutes late to the birthday party, but it was just me and Jessie now. Everyone else at our table had left over 20 minutes ago.
	"So I gotta bounce now, since I’m now 30 minutes late, but before I go, do you do the number thing?"
	"Yeah," Jessie said, pulling out her phone. I was relieved to not have heard "sure", which is my most hated word in the English language. She took my number and we left.

	By the time I got to the birthday party, I was kicking myself for not getting her number. I had no guarantee that she was ever going to text me. But I checked my phone, and sure enough:
	Jessie
	LAKIND, I replied, hoping to continue the energy I brought to the table earlier.
	im really glad i met you u give mrun a good name
	Ho. Ly. Shit.
	My options were limited, at that point.
	I had no choice but to invite her out to hot chocolate at 11:30pm.
	Hey I’m sorry I was just chilling and lost track of my phone but i would def be down to Hang within the next couple of days
	Close enough.

	Act II: the Wolverine CuiZine Halloween Party
	An event catering to teetotaling freshman.

	The room was about 30x80ft and sparsely filled with maybe 15 people. We had soda and chips, and we had drinking games turned dry. And, of course, we had students in groups of 3-4 who didn’t know how to socialize amongst themselves, let alone with other clusters of people there.
	About two and a half hours into a painful grind of social lubrication, Bob and Sarah showed up.
	I should have bitten my tongue.
	"Did you bring Jessie with you?" Sarah and Jessie were friends from somewhere else; I hadn’t quite figured it out.
	"No, lemme call her."

	My problems with girls tend to derive from the fact that I come on too strong too quickly. Surely, having a girl’s friend call her and demand that she come to the lamest event this side of the Mississippi 18 hours after inviting her to hot chocolate and 24 hours after meeting her might be a little too much.
	The phone was ringing. Sarah was holding it.
	The phone was ringing. I was holding it.
	Wait, what?
	"Here, you talk to her!" Sarah was smiling to the point where she wanted to watch me screw this up.
	"Hello?"
	No time for thinking. A 70% solution now is better than a 100% solution later.

	Jessie actually came, surprisingly enough. And she ditched her sister to do so. We didn’t do a whole lot. I checked out of the party and we stood there talking about food, corn, and sugar while we tried to blow ping pong balls from a bowl of flour to a different bowl. We were both covered in flour by the end of it, but she didn’t care.
	"Do you want to go sit down?"
	"Oh god yes please, my legs are killing me."
	I’m pretty sure she came because she was genuinely interested in talking to me.
	She stayed for about forty minutes to an hour. I lost track of time, but it felt like a while.

	Act III: Confusion

	When Sarah and Bob were at the Halloween party before Jessie got there, she and Bob were talking overtly secretly about some text they sent each other.
	The next morning, I asked Bob about it. He was sitting in the reclining chair next the dining table.
	"So what was that text you and Sarah were guarding?"
	"Can’t tell you."
	"Why not?"
	"It’s a secret?"
	"Tell me."
	"You don’t want to know."
	"Tell me anyways."
	Bob put down his book, leaned forward, and pulled out his phone. He played with it for a few seconds.

	"She said she’s not sure Jessie’s into you."

	We talked on the phone for an hour and a half on Monday night.
	We went out for breakfast on Wednesday, a grand total of five days after I first met her. It was only for an hour, and the time felt stunted. I wanted more time to talk to her. She walked me to class and gave me a hug before we went our separate ways.

	Act IV: Phone Girl

	A story four years old, I rarely think about it since.
	There’s no reason for me to write about it.
		To do so would be to give undue credit to it.
		Not to her, Phone Girl, but to the story itself.
	But there was a point.

	Act V:

	It was… fine.

	I could not stop talking about Jessie.
	"You know what’s awesome?" "What?" "JESSIE."
	I was thinking about her all the time.
		I had totally done this before.
	It was awesome. I love being infatuated with someone or something. It gives your life a purpose. It gives you something exciting to look forward to. It makes you feel alive. I don’t know how to describe it more than that; call me a hedonist, but it just makes me happy.
		You know how Phone Girl got her name?
	I was under her spell, and it was awesome.
		We spent 40 hours on the phone in the first two weeks.

	And then I didn’t see her for a few days.
	It was… fine.
	I was free from her spell. And it was cool, I guess, but I didn’t feel as happy. There was no invisible source of happiness.
		I didn’t care about writing about Phone Girl anymore.
	I wanted to bring back my stupid obsession. I wanted to feel blithe and foolish. It was tough, however, because I had lost my desire to talk to her.

	Concluding Act:

	I ate. I went to bed. I slept. I woke up.
	I ate. I went to bed. I slept. I woke up.
	I think it’s time to end this piece. No closing. Just an ending.

	Act VI: Monday

	I turned right from the doors on the southwest corner of the Modern Languages Building toward my bike. My phone buzzed. I couldn’t think of anyone who would be texting me. I had ended all earlier conversations.
	11/04/13 M Jessie LaKind
	Oh, this is interesting.
	Hey wanna hang out Wed?
	Fuck yeah, but i’m kinda busy all day so how bout you come over at 630 for dinner and then we go to trivia at 830 till 1030?
	Yeah, that’d be great
	Pretty sure that was the first time I’d ever not gotten a tepid "sure" from a girl.

	Act VII: Wednesday

	It’s 6:30.
	I’ve got the dough all made.
	I’ve got the toppings: her favorites, mushrooms and olives, and mine, pineapple.
	Dinner goes well. Jessie meets my roommates. We talk. It’s fun.
	We go to trivia. She meets more of my friends. It’s fun.
	We split to our separate ways afterwards. I made sure to touch her and flirt with her at trivia, clarifying my interest.

	Hey thank you so much for everything tnite i had a lot of fun, i just wanted to fill u in more about what i was starting to tell u today that I just got out of a serious relationship which was pretty traumatic and need some cooling off time. That being said I am really enjoying our friendship and I think you’re a really unique person. I hope you will continue to want to be my friend.
	What.
	For sure, absolutely.

	Jesus, I don’t even know what to say.
	I think I just want to retreat into my schoolwork.

	I went to bed almost immediately after I got that text. I was just done with it.
	I slept.
	I woke up.