	Alissar texted me at about 4:00PM on Thursday. I was at NROTC, so I had to type out a response on my phone hidden underneath my cover sitting in my lap.
	Tin tin Thursday? By specifying the day, it made it sound like it wasn’t obviously today. Grice’s maxims of conversation were at play here.
	Tonight? What time? I had shown up to a party of hers the weekend before, and unfortunately, I was a week early; it was possibly one of the most embarrassing moments of my life.
	Undetermined haha I have to do laundry first.
	Lemme know when I should come over and I’ll be there.

	***

	"Hi, welcome to Lena’s, my name is Alice, how can I help you?"
	It was February second, and I was calling Lena’s, the superb upscale restaurant on Washington and Main.
	"Hi, my name is Ari. Could I make a reservation for February 14th?"
	"Sure, what time?"
	"6:00PM."
	"Excellent, can I get a name for the reservation?"
	"Brown."
	"Alright, have an excellent day Mr. Brown. We look forward to seeing you on February 14th at 6:00PM."
	I didn’t have a date. I had a few ideas of who I wanted to ask, but mostly I wanted to make do a little bit of preparation. Get things done ahead of time, you know? Get all my ducks in a row.

	***

	At 10:30PM, she told me to come over. I was at Charley’s when she texted me.
	"Alright man, that’s my summons." We talked as I slowly finished the melonball Karry had ordered me.
	I let my phone sit in my pocket.
	I let the conversation carry on.
	I don’t get to hang out with Karry too often, so I wanted to make sure I didn’t leap out of the chair as soon as some girl half my age texted me.

	The waitress came by to collect our now empty glasses.
	"Can I get two shots of Maker’s Mark?" Karry asked the waitress.
			"No man, I can’t, I gotta be sober."
	"Two Maker’s Mark?" the waitress said to him.
			"Dude, if I show up any more drunk, she’ll hate my ass."
	"Yes, that’d be great, thank you." Karry sent her off, my protests falling on deaf ears.
	"Alright, looks like we’re doing shots."

	I got there pretty late, at around 11:00PM, and given that I had to be up at 5:30AM on Friday for NROTC, I knew that going to bed by 1:00PM would not demand a low price from my body.
	The place was rampant with people, so we all just hung out, listened to music, talked, and played pong. I am always a bit nervous in her house — or in any house like that — because their bohemian lifestyle just sets me so on edge, like I know something could go wrong at any second. Like I know I don’t belong. And for some reason, la vie bohème is the only thing that makes me fear being a foreigner.
	At 1:30AM, we finally got to the movie. We sat on this two-person couch and cuddle for the duration. I stroked her leg and played with her hair, knowing that things were going to turn out well: we had made out at her party the weekend prior, and we were finally alone, save for one kid high out of his mind on the couch next to us.

	And things worked out, I guess. The movie ended, we talked for a while, and then at 4:00AM she suggested that she go to bed. I agreed; we shifted positions and then started making out. I remarked the time; she stood up, straddled me, and we picked up where we left off.
	4:20AM came too soon, and I knew that I just had to get out. As much as I wanted to stay more and mess around even further, I was fearful of falling asleep and that somehow, by the malevolence of karma, I would sleep past my NROTC commitment that morning.

	She stood up and i was holding her hand. I looked into her face. I smiled. She smiled.
	"What are you doing next friday—"
	"No."







	"…"
	She looked up and to the left and brushed her hair out of her face.
	"Have we had this talk yet?"
	Her smiled looked a little — I dunno, pained? And she still held my hand.
	"I don’t date. I don’t date. I can’t date." I gave her the space to speak. "At this point in my life, what I want, what I need, is to not be emotionally exclusive with someone. I can’t do that."




	"Okay."

	Well what the fuck else was I supposed to say?
	I stood up.
	I put my hand around her head and gently scratched her scalp. We kissed.
	I think that was the right move, but I’m not really sure. We talked about future plans, about how I’m going to make her watch Firefly. We made out a little more.
	I left and went to bed for an hour before getting up and running at PT.

	As part of the half-marathon team for NROTC, we get to skip Wednesday and Friday battalion PT and instead have to do our own group runs at the same timeslot. It’s a bit of an improvement — it’s a hell of an improvement — but the timing is still the same. We were in the CCRB on Friday morning.
	I took a treadmill and just cruised. Listened to one song, whose only real line is "Can’t fuck with us. Don’t fuck with us. Come fuck with us." Stared at the wall. Ran. Fast. For being out of shape, exhausted, and heavier than I used to be, I was dropping 7:00/mi like they were nothing. I was moving faster than I had since even before the first threat of snowfall.

	But god damn, if I wasn’t overcome with… I don’t even know. Alissar stirred in me these feelings that I didn’t know I had. From having beautiful women faun over and adore me all the previous weekend — week, two weeks, even — all of a sudden it was not enough. Essays of interactions no longer engaged me. A small story of a girl one night could not captivate me anymore. I wanted more. Short stories, novellas, novels, romans; a movie, film, a radio special.
	Sadness.
	I believe that’s the word for what I felt.

	I finished up my treadmill running after I hit about 47 minutes. I turned off the treadmill, did some light stretching, and then walked out of the cardio room. I turned right to walk towards the exit, and, in doing so, was facing a long, full-wall mirror that stretched the expanse of the room.
	Short shorts, long legs, high socks to my knee.
	Virginia club singlet, though I’ll be damned if anyone can tell it apart from the varsity version.
	Broad shoulders, and a haircut that didn’t look too bad, considering I did it myself on Wednesday. In fact, it looked pretty good.
	I looked good.
	I looked great.
	I looked like a statue from antiquity, muscles carved of marble.
	It felt good to have done something right in the oldest relationships I have.
	Efforts not done in vain.
	Investments with good return.