	It feels awful.
	Heat like you’ve never seen.
	Humidity like you’ve never felt.
	And misery.
	The misery of the conditions just make me so uncomfortable. And it’s not like I’m running around and working out — hah, at least not yet — so I feel like I’m unjustified in hating it to the degree I do.

	That’s what it feels like to lie in anticipation of this fucking EOD summer training.

	It’s not training. It’s an audition. I’m auditioning for a part in the play that is the Naval Special Operations community.
	Cool, huh?

	My dad drove me to the airport this morning.
	"You excited for it?" He asked me.
	"Scared shitless."
	"Scared? —"
	"Well, I’m really excited for it, but I also am just so nervous for it."
	"What are you nervous about?"
	"I mean, if they were throwing us into the unknown, I’d be fine. I can do that. I am good at dealing with the unknown. I value my perspective and think I have enough depth and breadth of experience to successfully negotiate anything they can reasonably throw at us."
	"So what’s the problem?"
	And therein lies the question, problem, and solution.

	I’ve got all these tools.
	I can wield them well enough.
	If Uncle Sam wants me to run, I’ll run. I’ll run far. I’ll run fast. I’ll play that game all day long. I may not be fast among runners, but among the muggles of the military I can hold my own and lay down the law.
		But that’s not even entirely true.
	I struggle to showcase my running during the PST, the grand fitness test that we have to do. The Physical Screening Test.
	For some reason likely attributed to lack of fitness, swimming, pushups, situps, and pullups tire me to exhaustion. Ne väsyvät minut uuvuksiin.

	I swear I’ve got the tools, though. Even though I get caught up with whether or not I can blow the PST out of the water or not, it doesn’t really matter what happens.
	This is no dialogue.
	There is no question for me to debate with myself.
	Time to sack up and fuck shit up.

	It starts with my languages.
	I studied Esperanto for a time and now speak English, French, and Finnish. I can barely form a coherent sentence in Esperanto, my French speech-production is too often poor, and my Finnish is clearly lacking judging by my reading of Harry Potter ja Viisasten Kivi earlier today.
	But that doesn’t matter.
	The point is that I spent several hours today reading books in three different languages, even using one to study a fourth.
	No one else is doing that.
	I carried myself through foreign countries and languages and used my command of language to not just survive but thrive.
	And no, dear 7th grade math teacher, I no longer confuse command with mastery.

	Next is my running.
	An example of mediocrity and much effort over years to deliver minimal results.
		I swear I’m only good at useless things.
	I am at the point where, inevitably, we will have to go for a distance run with an EOD team this coming trip.
	And I will do it with such comfort and ease as has not been seen for quite a time.
	Among my people — runners — I am poor, but among others I am rich.
	I don’t need to be spectacular when putting it all together in the performance that is the PST.
	I have shown and will show that I am not Pavlov’s failure.
	I can be trained.
	Repeated failure will lead to success.

	And look what I’m doing now — I’m writing.
	I was always jealous of those kids who went to Dartmouth.
		I still am.
	They could write like music sings.
	And they could run, jump, and throw like Olympians.
	They are some of the most well-rounded people out there. They can do anything and everything.
	This is my meager attempt at fulfilling both what I want to be as well as what the world needs from a useful citizen.
		Jack of all trades, master of none.
	I will take the exile of mastery as consequence of utility.

	It ends with my mustache.
	Poor and blond and thin.
	It is my pièce de résistance.
	It represents who I am in the context of the military.
		Shave that shitstache, Brown.
	Nope. Not gonna happen. It stays. It is the last bastion of rebellion available to Sailors.
	And I want the world to fucking know.

	You know, you spend so many years trying to blend in, but when service selection, job hunting, elections come, you end up trying your hardest to stand out from the crowd.
	My mustache, an antique from a more civilized era of gangrene and battlefield amputations, is my simple statement of who I am and what I possess.
	Half Prefontaine, half General Burnsides.

	And you bet your fucking ass, I can grow a mean pair of mutton chops.

	—

	This is as much an audition for them as it is for me. I want the EOD team to show me why they’re the best.
	Why they’re the smartest.
	The nicest.
	The most polite.
	Everyone in the military is amped up on violence. It’s too easy to solve problems with testosterone, and the side-effects are brushed under the rug. They practice some serious "mind over matter" shit with regards to that, hoping to just will them out of existence.

	We’re gonna land in about two hours. EODC(EWS) Gentry is gonna pick me up, roughly 9:00PM local. I hope we can go get a burger or something, I’m fucking starving.

	—

	Probably the scariest part of this whole trip is the traveling in uniform.
	First impressions mean a lot.
	There are a lot of rules to how to wear this uniform, and everyone on base is prepared to pick me apart and tear me to shreds. If I show up looking ever-so-slightly like shit, what will that mean to them?
		I’m not wearing my shirt stays.
	And that was a conscious decision. A decision to disregard the rules and play my own game "because it would be more comfortable to travel."

	So back to the question, the problem, and the answer:
	It’s not the unknown that scares me. Fuck naw, I got that shit on lock.
	It’s the known.
	These rules that I can’t seem to follow.
	These rules that I seem to only cursorily know.
	And it’s not like they’ll be wrong for pointing them out.
		"Why didn’t you follow the rule exactly? It was written clear as day."
	I got nothin’.

	—

	Why do you want to be an EOD Officer?
	Good question.

	Well the first question is why I want to be in the Navy. And that’s because they Navy plays in all fields. And, retrospectively, they have the best work method. I come from a Navy lineage, so there’s some obvious bias, but I like to pretend that it’s irrelevant.

	The next question is why I want to be an officer. And it’s simple: I specialize in systems. I specialize in managing environments that organize information, responsibility, accountability, and authority. I am a people-person (as much as that sends me down the "Office Space" route) and a computer scientist and programmer. Bomb disposal and submarines are cool, but system management is more so.
	I also want to lead. I enjoy responsibility and authority.

	The final question is why I want to do EOD.
	…
	I guess it’s because I want to work with the people who care enough to sit me down and ask about my hobbies. I want to work with people who ask me why I want to be an EOD officer, and when my answer isn’t good enough, they tell me to think of a better answer and get back to them.
	Running, jumping, shooting, and swimming are all fine and dandy, but I recognize that the military takes all things fun and ruins them — plus, you know, this job won’t consist entirely of playing with big toys for big boys.
	I’m in this game for what it actually is: leading, navigating, and managing systems and situations.

	I don’t want to be a SEAL. I don’t want to live a life of solely killing and apprehending people. I am not a weapon; I am a tool.
	I don’t want to be a nuke. A nuke would not fully utilize what I have to offer.