	I am glad to hear that you have accepted and moved on from your mother’s (and grandfather’s) diagnosis of MS. I cannot imagine that being and easy thing to do.
	You talk about the importance of your mother for a few pages, starting with how she made a great effort to be an important figure in your lives growing up. You then talk about how she was a major sports supporter. Then you tell us about how your grandparents supported you as well, but then you tell us about how your grandfather has MS. You then describe how you went to Las Vegas and had a blast there up until your parents dropped the bomb on you that your mother had MS as well.
	You have a very interesting story to tell here. I want to read it and just sink my teeth into the page. You have a lot of great material, and you can really show instead of tell.
	Unfortunately, that’s not quite what happens here. You tell us about how good your mother is to you for the first three pages, then you tell us about your grandpa for about a half page, then you tell us about a volleyball game for two pages. At this point, I have no idea where this paper is headed. At first I thought it was about your mom, then I thought it was about your grandfather, and now I know something important is going to happen at volleyball… but it just goes on and on. The scene involves your brother being rude to your mother when she is showing what would later be revealed to us as signs of her illness, which is great foreshadowing, but it was really hard to pick up on during the initial reading. In the last two pages, we finally hear about your mother’s illness.
	I’d really like to hear more about YOUR growth through this all. Everything is very much a first-person retelling of a third-person tale; I want to see a first-person tale. I want you to be in the spotlight. Dialogue should have a purpose, but most, if not all, of the dialogue is extraneous. You have a lot of good material here, but the foreshadowing needs to be sharper and more contrasting.
