	I looked down from the wall to the floor. There was an inch of water covering it, and in my new shoes, I was worried about getting them dirty with filthy water, but in my cobbled-together thrift-shop suit, it somehow felt appropriate. There was no flush on the urinal, so I shook, zipped, and turned around. I looked at the sinks. I walked toward the sinks. I turned right, dodging the sinks. Like most males with more than a couple weeks of experience with their tool, I hadn’t pissed on my hands. The sinks felt more like a distraction from my last night in France and the people on the dance floor than an ancient invention designed for public health. I walked up a few steps and put my arm out to the wall as I turned the corner back to the party. I jogged up the three steps.
	Some guy came down at the same time, busting past me as I narrowly moved my arm in time.
	“Excusez-moi,” I said in a hushed voice. The French hate me because I’m loud, and I hate the French because they’re quiet.
	“Sorry, man,” he said simultaneously.
	We each go a few more steps in our directions. I guess at this point I admitted to myself that nothing was really happening on the dance floor.
	“Are you from the States?” I stopped and turned down the stairs toward the bathroom.
	He stopped too. “Yeah, man.”
	We shook hands. I suppressed the thoughts that his hand had now effectively touched my dick. I made damn sure not to accidentally tell him.
	“What are you doing in Paris?”
	“I work here, man.”
	“How long have you worked here?”
	“Five years, man.”
	This was the standard dance that the Americans I met in France did. They — we — would ask each other these basic questions to figure out what we were doing so far from home. It felt scripted, but it didn’t feel bad.
	“What brought you to Paris?”
	“Love, man.” He held out his left hand and pointed to the ring on his finger. “I fell in love with a French woman.”

	Love, man. The guy was a caricature of himself.
	He could’ve phrased it a thousand different ways, the most obvious being “My wife is French.” But instead, he chose to give me a response that was just dripping in story and history.
	I know he’s got a life filled with success, failure, fair winds, and trouble, but I don’t want to know those. I want to know him solely as the incarnation of love, man.
	In his response, he said that love is a story.
	I like that idea.