	I live on the outside edge of the White Mountains in New Hampshire.
	My favorite mountain is Mt. Cardigan.
	I love the the top, the bald outcrop with the fire tower in the middle. On a sunny day, there’s nothing better than taking the quick hike up and then sitting and doing nothing for a few hours. Grab some friends, bring some beer and cheese, and just waste the day. Even if dark clouds roll in with a storm in tow, nothing could ruin Mt. Cardigan; take shelter below treeline and watch out beyond an overlook as the skies open up and rain pours from the heavens. There’s no such thing as a bad day in the mountains.
	Given that it’s only a 45 minute hike to the top and the mountain offers a near-unspoiled view of the southwest corner of the Whites, it definitely gives the most bang for your buck.

	But if you asked me what Mt. Cardigan looks like, I wouldn’t be able to tell you. I can tell you what everything else looks like from its perspective, but nothing about how the mountain itself looks.
	Sure, there are trails I can describe, but that does nobody any good. Trails are often indistinguishable.
	The relationship I have with that place is purely experiential.
	I’ve never sat down with the mountain to look at what it is, or asked it what it likes, or even studied its history.
	I just call up Mt. Cardigan whenever I’m looking for a comfortable adventure.

	I went up Mt. Washington once.
	Mt. Washington is considered the face of the White Mountains, it being the highest point in the northeastern United States and home to the the world’s worst weather. For years — truly, hundreds of years — people have painted it as the most prominent figure on the horizon.
	Everyone here knows all about Mt. Washington: standing on Mt. Cardigan, you just need one spin around to know exactly where Mt. Washington is. I can put it on a map, and I can draw what it looks like from three different peaks. I know what it likes, and I know it’s history. I know the effect of adiabatic expansion on the temperature when at Mt. Washington, and I know that 135 people have died on the mountain since the tally was started.
	I never actually summited Mt. Washington, though. We got 4/5 of the way up before having to turn around because we were afraid of dying on the rocks in the alpine garden near the top. My friends got stuck on a slippery boulder that would have thrown their bodies to the bottom of the Huntington’s Ravine without a second’s thought or care.
	I wouldn’t call up Mt. Washington if I were looking for a friendly afternoon.

	It’s like things have two different identities: that of up-close and that of far away. They’re not always the same, but sometimes they are.