My girlfriend and I have been dating for a while now and one of the biggest difficulties we have had has stemmed from the difference in our majors.  My major is within the school of LSA and hers is within the college of engineering.  The issue that arises from this is a product of class placement.  All of my classes are on central campus while hers are almost entirely on north.  This has not been much of an issue except that this semester is the first time we are living on different campuses since our relationship began.The real problem this poses becomes an issue during late night study sessions where the journey one of us must take to get home is impossible, impractical, or just dangerous.  Therefore we had to sit down and plan ahead.  The goal of our negotiation was to determine how often we would have such a sleep over, and where it would be.  That way it would be easy to plan accordingly and bring study materials wherever they need to go with out the worry of time.
Luckily for us we have a lot of negotiating advantages.  We have already spent a long time establishing a rapport, liking and trust.  This made it a lot easier to transparently discuss feelings on an issue.  However, with this added experience come disadvantages as well.  Probably the most difficult one for me was separating the problem form the person.  Despite my logical personality it becomes difficult to think absolutely rationally about things when you are in a relationship with someone.   With so much time together there are many emotions and negative negotiation attempts that hinder my ability to separate her and the problem.	The other thing I had to be wary of was not crossing the line one where suggestion turns into pushing.  My girlfriend can get a emotional if a discussion starts to heat up, so keeping my phrasings in check would be key in making sure she feels that her decisions are her own.  After all, the relationship is far more important then the stakes.  Both of us knew that, but being wary of this potential problem is never a bad idea.	My next step in preparation was to examine our time together to assess the overlaps and potential conflict areas based on our personal bargaining styles.  I know myself to be a logical and practical negotiator.  I am often conciliatory, however in situations such as these where I have to make certain that I am maintaining my needs, I have a tendency of rigidity around certain subjects of which I am very adamant.  That being said I also think I am almost always open to hearing and considering suggestions.  This openness is one thing that we have in common.  I also know her to be rather emotional and to exhibit passive-aggressive behavior, as she gets more frustrated.  While she is usually practical, her emotions severely lessen her judgment.  I also know her to work very hard to alleviate the most immediate stressor, which posses issues for certain long term solutions.  Recognizing these differences I knew that my goal was to define a fair standard and set realistic goals.  The hope here was to keep what needed to be known out in the open and leave more room for us to discuss what issues were most important to us.  This, I anticipated being a good counter measure to both my rigidity and her potential emotional flux as well as preventing the negotiation from “turning into a contest of will” (Getting to Yes, 23).	Next, I had to gather information on her target position goals.  A lot my ideas about her potential positions and based in retrospective analysis of her personality.  I determined that it would likely be her goal to spend as much time together as possible, on as many nights as possible.  She is quite social and does not do well with much time alone.  I, however, have quite introverted tendencies and would like fewer nights together, as I tend to get easily agitated with people if I spend too much consecutive time with them.  I speculated the other things important to her to be the following.  Convenience would be important because she has to work on north campus several mornings a week.  Being at her place would be important because she has told me that she wished the time we spent together was more evenly spaced between the campuses.  Lastly I figured having some “me time” would be important to her, however, not much would be necessary.  The big contrast here was that “me time” was my most important issue.  I felt it had benefits for both of us.   I am comfortable when I am alone, I also was looking for convenience, because I had early morning class on certain days, and I often stayed up much later then her working on homework, so getting up in the morning on north would be difficult.  On the lower end of important topics for me was spending time together and location.  I placed spending time together so low because I was using her definition “time together”.  In other words, time spent in band, and mid-day studying did not really count for her as “together time”.  Since those moments did for me, I felt we were spending more time together then she did and therefore spending additional time was not as important.	After this analysis the only left to consider was that she would be leaving at the end of the semester for an out-of-state internship.  The major impact of this would be that time would seem fleeting, and her leaving would be hanging over our heads for the entire semester.  Because of that, spending as much time as possible together would hold even more importance for her.  For me, this meant settling for a BATNA was not an option, an agreement had to be made.
	The most important part of the actual negotiation was meeting face-to-face.  Luckily this was easy enough because we play in several bands together, and as a couple, already spend a good deal of time together. I started out the negotiation with the intention not to anchor.  While anchoring is normally a good strategy, I wanted to take an approach where we looked at each position and tried to narrow down the days rather then haggle back and forth.  I also knew that my anchor, 1 night, would be very low and she would not approve at all.  In fact my saying that I only wanted one night together might spark additional concern in that I was avoiding her or other things of that nature that I did not want to risk.	The bulk of the negotiation consisted of us voicing our concerns, the most important of which were defining the impossible or undesirable days.  Because I had early class and she had work, we ruled out having Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays on north, and Sundays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays on Central.  Also due to early mornings on Saturdays because of band obligation we decided that Fridays would best be spent on central campus.  The other concern was transportation.  She had a car and I did not, so campus travel was much easier for her as I had to take a bus, which are much less convenient.	Noting this I took an opportunity to appeal to her focus of interests by opening the days to have sleepovers generously and offered to stay at her place Monday nights with no expectation of reciprocity as a show of good faith.  From there we began trading off items via inventing options, which took the form of offering different day combinations and transportation options.  As we progressed it became apparent to me that her biggest concern was really just spending time together and the where was much less of a concern.  I used this to my advantage by playing up the morning inconvenience in order to prevent my obligation to north campus being any more then one night.  I traded off on this issue of lower priority in exchange for some lenience in her higher priority issues.  We decided that every day would be a potential day for nighttime spent together.  However, in an effort to prevent this from becoming overwhelming for me I pushed our negotiation towards establishing a concrete schedule.	In the end we decided on one day on north, one on central, with three days being impossible.  This left for a possible four days a week to spend time together, and three days a week for ensure that I had the time I needed to be alone.
Coming out of the negotiation, it was obvious that having the additional experience with each other was as big of a benefit as I had hoped it would be.  It was easy to be open and upfront about concerns.  I also felt that during the rare occasion that we had difficulty expressing ourselves, we knew each other well enough to make sense of any confusion that occurred.	One thing that we were very good at was inventing options for mutual gain. I credit this almost entirely to the fact that we know each other so well.  We were able to think of compromises that we knew would speak to the important interests that were being addressed, without having to guess around in the dark if that situation where our views of each other’s interests were muddled and nebulous.	The biggest advantage that we were able to embrace was that so many of Cialdini’s influence strategies for reciprocity were prevalent even before negotiation began.  We went in knowing and wanting to be reciprocal, and we started out with a nice directional goal because of the consistency of our past (where we tended to sleep in years prior).  I also believe that the scarcity of the time we had left made her more willing to agree with what I wanted more easily.  Since my time was also quite scare on a day-to-day basis I could frame the time I had to give as precious.  Therefore, all time I could spare was all that much more special because I could easily use it to show my effort to make her happy.	While there were no huge surprises, there was still some aspects that I wish had gone differently.  For instance there were times during which I held back my full emotion on a topic as a means to preserve the relationship and ended up not getting what I truly needed.  The best example was that the end result left a lot of room for many additional nights spent together.  While I don’t have any strong feelings against this, I know that there is potential for those days to begin to feel routine, and then when I need a night alone it will be that much harder to get it.
All of the above leads to my two big takeaways.  Both of them are just comments on what I felt I could have done better during the negotiation.  The first is that I wish I had made my “hypothetical fears” more visible to her.  Those fears being my assumption that non-routine sleep over days would slowly become routine, and then impede my alone time.The second item that I felt I should work on would be my level of empathy and understanding could have been better.  The major point of the negotiation was rooted in the amount of time we spent together, and since we had differing views on what qualified as “together time”, a riff developed.  The negotiation would have gone even smoother if I had considered earlier on that just because I knew why we had slept at my place more didn’t mean that it felt any different to her.  Or that just because we were together didn’t mean that it felt like we were truly hanging out.The big take away from this negotiation boils down to one statement to consider.  When complying with certain details of a negotiation are at your expense, it is easy to overlook crucial insights that make a big difference for those you are negotiating with.  Obviously this is why planning ahead is important.  However, I learned that some times that is not enough and the best way to counter act this is to make sure you understand their answer to the why question as well as they	 do.At the beginning of the semester I attempted to outline my beliefs regarding the relationship between science perception and reality.  In the initial paper, I began by detailing my grievance with the Cartesian scale defined in class that described how science and reality related  to the outside world.  I continued that idea when I contemplated where I stood on the metaphysical scale and found that I was rooted well within the realm of the materialist.  My attributions, among other things, were to my up bring and academic disposition to the hard sciences.  However, I found it hard to define where I stood on the Epistemological scale because there were certain things that my view held consistent with both extremes.  This whole discrepancy I had was clearly rooted in my initial grievance with the scaling system.  I then concluded with contemplation about religion and love, and how I could not comprehend certain positions regarding the aforementioned ideas because of the premises such conclusions, like the existence of God would require.  Now, after months of exploring alternate ideologies and extremes of the spectrum, I have reflected upon the conclusions I made at the outset of the course.  Much of what I felt then has since changed, and if not in my fundamental views of each topic then in how I feel my positions should be supported.Before discussing where I stand on the Cartesian scale of perception, there are parts of the scale that I still disagree with.  The most fundamental disagreement is the idea that we cannot classify the relation between perception, and reality and science on a two-dimensional scale.  After a semester of discussing the nature perception from so many different vantage points, having it all summed up on a sliding scale is too much of an oversimplification. As it stands now, I feel as though defining myself on this scale is to define the ratio of how often I agree with one extreme of the scale versus the other.  This makes we wonder because I feel intuition plays as much a role in understanding the world that positive science does.  Should I be defined as a constructionist on this account, even if none of my views are fundamentally consistent with that of a true constructionist?  Or in a similar situation where my views about materialism versus idealism are equally split as well? It is my belief that there should be some better method of determining how we stand on the Cartesian plane.  For example, we discussed the science of color and the tri-chromatic theory of vision.  I whole-heartedly believe and support the idea that there are certain wavelengths of lights that invoke similar reactions among all those who can distinguish those colors.  I accept the notions put forth by scientific reason, and results the scientific method has produced.  However, in a relatively unrelated topic of Abstract Algebra, I whole-heartedly believe that everything discovered was, on its most elementary level, conceived as the product of intuition.  I believe that given the most basic axioms of Group, Ring, Field etc. theory, one with sufficient intuitive power can discern everything that has already been discovered in that area.With this in mind, I do believe that the scale presented has the right approach, but there needs to be a method by which one can define themselves (if they so choose) in a myriad of situations, as opposed to the generality that the current two-dimensional scale forces upon us.  Now this being said, I think that on this train of though and with sufficient skepticism an infinite dimensional scale could be argued for as the only ideal system.  There are a seemingly infinite number of aspects of the world that could be looked at and questioned in relation to the perception dichotomy between the dimensions of epistemological and metaphysical thought.  On top of that there are billions of people that populate the earth (this all assuming you don’t believe that animals can achieve consciousness either) with their own viewpoints.  The only reason I mention this skepticism is that one of the main things I have come to truly understand about the differing views of perception in this course is that without skepticism it is impossible to properly consider alternate ideas.  As a result, I have developed a healthy skepticism of my own views and those around me.  But to summarize my thoughts on the perception scale, I believe that there is a relationship between perception and reality that is based in the upbringing of a person.  There are billions of people, all with different upbringings, which should warrant a revisiting to the Cartesian scale.  Adding dimensions to break apart our world in categories that can be more effectively analyzed.  Diminishing the stress of having defined ones self in such a general way.  With so many ways of viewing the world, I do not believe a two-dimensional model to be sufficient. 	In the “Initial Paper”, my grievance with the perception scale was most notable when I was discussing my epistemological views.  Yet I have found that even with my added understanding of the scale and its limits, my epistemological position changed least dramatically of the two dimensions.  In fact I believe it has remained consistent with where I started.  I believe that in gaining knowledge there are realms where the scientific method is incredibly crucial, while in other areas, intuition takes over.  However, much like I described in my grievance, I have found that being split between the two does not make me a constructionist.For example, my views of math are divided.  On one end I have the theoretical math, a type of math that, as I have said, I feel is solvable with nothing more then the axioms.  There are brilliant minds that have that have done exactly this.  More evidence for the power of intuition in theoretical math comes simple from the fact that there are those that cannot comprehend it.  If two people are given the same amount of explanation in the same way, and one can understand the explanation and one cannot, it must be asked, “how this can be possible?”  Since the extrinsic input is constant between the two people, it is their ability to learn without additional help that is the variable.  Therefore, it must have to do with the difference in how they can use their intuition to un-fog any confusion they might have.  In other words, people can have differing levels on intuition on this area, so by my account, if there is a difference in the intuition then intuition trivially must play a role in the acquisition of knowledge.Now on the opposing end I consider financial math.  Methods employed my financial mathematicians are those that have been employed by many others before them.  While change does occur, people often do not leave their decisions up to their own specific methods.  Concepts like the standardization of methods being easier to handle on the grand scale of worldwide business offer explanation as to why this is.  Based on this example I have found myself wanting new explanations for the reason that I feel the way I do.	My views have changed on the epistemological scale when I discuss how I conceive of the interrelation between the two ends (positive science and intuition).  For instance, there are many areas that I feel I can proceed easily after I have been provided with a few instances of methods for solving problems.  My intuition can been motivated in such a way that I adapt to figure out future problems.  From this perspective I have the means to gather information via intuition alone.  However, I find myself questioning the initial methods that lead me to this intuition.  Were those methods the product of scientific method, or where they the product of intuition?  Even if they are the product of intuition, if that intuition is not my own, is that better methods derived form the scientific method?  To know that answer to that would be to know the derivation of the intuition that lead to the method that my intuition is based upon. It is entirely possible that the intuition was built upon a trial-by-error method as well.  This closely resembles the scientific method in that one starts with a hypothesis and alters it until success is achieved.  As a result of everything I have considered since the semester began, I have found myself moving farther in the direction of positive science if simply because of the process of seeking the history of the methods that make up my intuition.  From that process, for intuition to be true, it would take pure intuition to be passed from thinker to thinker until it reached myself.  The chances of this are quite slim, so I feel it is much more likely that positive science has a role in many of the seemingly intuitive areas of consideration.	As I said in the Initial paper, my ideas about positive science versus intuition are heavily based in my up bringing.  As I will mention again with the Metaphysical, there is an undoubted connection between the two.  I grew up with the scientific method and therefore I have spent much of my life learning about how to phrase the accumulation of knowledge in the framed context of hypothesis and experiment.  While granted there is still much, like math, that I believe is largely based on the power of ones intuition, I feel that if my life had been left to how well I can gather knowledge on my own, as opposed gathering knowledge with the support of the scientific method, then my opinions would be closer to those supporting intuitionism.Come semester end, my metaphysical view has shifted significantly more towards the idealist end.  I cannot say for certain how far in that direction (for reasons other then my dislike of the two-dimensional scale).  I find myself torn between the two extremes as the situation changes.  I have found that on this scale, the situations do not have to differ so very much, and are still capable of being vastly different in my analysis.  I prime example of this happened to me a few nights ago.  I was pondering the idea of truth and its relation to memory.  I realized that there is no relaying of information that can happen that can also be completely trusted.  I came to this realization through two separate musings.  The first on what “truth” really is.  How its subjective nature makes is vulnerable to disbelief.  By this I mean that with a healthy level of skepticism, one can find reason to withhold belief of anything told to them.  Now this notion is much better supported via the idealist then the materialist.  The materialist believes in the concrete world out there.  Our perception is merely the result how the world behaves around us.  Therefore, any notions conveyed to them are, to them, rooted in a world independent of us.  If the person or thing conveying that knowledge to them believes they are speaking the truth, then for the materialist, there is no denying what they have been told.  However, for the idealist, the truth is relative to the mind detailing it.  Now if someone is obtaining knowledge, they would have to accept both the idea that whatever is conveying the information to them is not lying, and the idea that they way the information is being conveyed is being framed around a truth that is accepted by both the conveyor and conveyee.  Obviously, more has to coincide for the idealist to believe information then the materialist.Now my final discovery does not take the idea of truth any farther then this.  Instead it diverges into the realm of memory.  I am fascinated by the idea that our own memories could all be false.  The paper “Toward a Theory of Memory and Attention” (D. A. Norman, 1968) discusses the issues that can arise, and the implications of those issues, in the various stages of memory storage and retrieval.  My big take away from this is that the retrieval of our memories can be disrupted for any number of reasons.  Additionally, the paper “See What You Want to See: Motivational Influences on Visual Perception” (E. Balcetis and D. Dunning, 2006) describes a multitude of situations where the information that is encoded can be influenced by what we want to hear.  A couple of examples they bring up include not hearing or seeing negative words, interpreting a picture as they want to interpret it, and they discussion of how having an expectation makes searching for anything that goes against that expectation much less likely – confirming what they want to confirm.  My big take away form this paper was that our conscious/subconscious can play an important role in determining how we encode our memories.  Combining these two take-aways, I arrived at the conclusion that we cannot be sure if the retrieval of a memory was successful, and even if it was, that the memory wasn’t tampered with during its original encoding due to our motivations at the time.  Now combining this with my thoughts on memory, I decided to think of retrieval as an information provider to the mind from the brain, and that there is no way of knowing if that provider is providing what the mind believes to be true or not.  In others words, I have come to believe that we cannot trust our memory.As a side note, this is where I feel I can truly be an idealist.  Memories make up a large part of how I view my world.  It is how I recognize my favorite music, how I remember how to play songs on the piano, and explains why saying a four-letter word is such a difficult task.  Now, based on these assumptions, I feel it safe it assumes that a large part of how I view and interact with the world is directly related to my conscious.  To be more specific, I have come to feel that retrospective anything starts with the conscious and therefore and thing that requires retrospective anything is also, to a large degree begins with conscious.  With this all in mind I want to explore the similar situations that I mentioned earlier, and at the end of that I will be able to detail why I still can consider myself a materialist.The first situation is as follows.  I are reading a autobiography about someone.  This is the only biography of any kind about that person and so there is nothing to compare it to.  The question is how much can I truly believe what I have read, and how much of it can be taken at the word of the author.  While it is true that no one has an account of all that is written in the autobiography, it is also true, by my accounts, that I cannot be sure of any memory transcribed being accurate.  Now additionally by my accounts this is an example why I am an idealist in certain circumstances.The second scenario is slightly different.  Instead of an autobiography, I am reading a research paper.  For some reason I find this easier to believe then the autobiography.  There are two reasons for this.  The first being my upbringing.  As I mentioned in the Initial paper I grew up with a scientist father, and my interests are mathematical.  My hard science background undoubtedly has an effect on my increased willingness to believe something based in science and reason.  The other reason is that it is based in scientific reason.  What is written in the research paper is based on presumably immediate transcription of what transpired.  I find that the time for error is much less in this scenario.  I have thought about this and wondered what the difference between the two scenarios is and I have decided that it does not matter.  What matters is what is not different between the two.  The similarity is that the information was conveyed to me in the same way.  Therefore I have concluded that if there was no difference in how I received the information then the difference must be the result of something independent of myself.  The only thing left to consider is the difference between the situation, whose exact nature is still irrelevant.  The only think that matters is that those differences have nothing to do with me.  May they be the nature of how the information was transcribed, or perhaps by the subject matter that is being conveyed.  Regardless, it all acknowledges that something in the outside world had an effect on my perception of the material, namely how convinced I am that what I am reading is true.  This is a prime example of why I still consider myself a materialist.	This examination also brings to light something else that has I believe effects how one perceives anything from an metaphysical standpoint.  If a person knows their academic dispositions, then they can better predict to what degree they will view something as the product of the conscious or the product of the outside world.  In my case I viewed the scientific journal as being more complete when compared to the autobiography.  It is possible that these feelings could be reversed if being viewed through the eyes of a historian who did not care much about scientific discovery.	This idea is also moderately consistent with the views put forth in “The Loss of the Creature” (W. Percy, 1989).  In it he argues that people’s perception of a situation is altered when they are given information from different sources.  He discusses the Grand Canyon first, and describes those “different sources” as being things like guidebooks, tours, articles, and word of mouth.  The relation between this and my views is that I find that someone is more likely to look up and research what interests them.  They are looking for accounts of their interest from the views of others.  They are allowing their perception to be altered by the ideas of those that have perceived their interests before they do.  While on the other end of the spectrum, the ambition to research what they have no interest in is quite smaller.  Leaving opinions about how they perceive something they are disinterested in up to the nature of the disinterest.  They way they view that world is not fed by experts; it is fed simply by how their conscious wants to view it.  If for no other reason this is because they have no other information to go on.  I find this relevant in my life in areas like politics.  I am not interested in politics, and as a result the reality of politics is rather boring and unexciting.  I had no interest in listening to lengthy debates and I don’t entirely follow political talk on the radio.  Others have differing opinions, but for me the reality of this nature will remain constant, at least for the time being.  And as I see it, these interests come from the experiences we have with them, and our reactions to them.  These experiences are the product of a childhood, which is the product of the upbringing each person has.  Now I grant that this is not all encompassing, but I do believe that this is true for the most part.	In my Initial Paper I discussed some things of this nature: religion and love.  I now want to take a minute to add to my views before I conclude this introspective search of how I view the world.  On the topic of religion I said true religious people cannot be idealists because to believe in God would be to believe in something that existed before their conscious.  Now I would like to add that true religious people are constructionists.  They take what they see and what they cannot explain and they call it God, or God’s actions.  From this end they are being materialists, however, as I mentioned before, they also see what they want to see.  Religious people that I have come to know also spend a lot of time looking for proof of the existence of God.  By that very statement they are not looking for proof that he doesn’t exist and therefore are more willing to see a world with Gods presence running through it.  This is quite idealist.  The one thing I still cannot explain is why this is the case, because I think that to accept this would be to accept God as merely a representation of an unexplainable class of circumstances.  However, I still am debating with myself the existence of God and yet I still feel what I have said to be true.  This is clearly a contradiction, but I cannot to make sense of it any more then this.	On the topic of love I have found my view shifting away from intuition.  This is probably not the most romantic shift in the world, but now think, especially after a discussion of the vignettes, that love is just an “evolved” form of what started as mating urges.  We have merely evolved out understanding of it.  We love those that make us feel safe, that help us when we need it, and are there for anything requested of them.  This seems an awful lot like the reason why monogamous species pair with their mates.  They need a mate they can depend on to help them and protect what is precious to them.  Yes, I still believe that physical urges to not completely account for everything that happens with love.  There are times that survival instinct would disagree final choice in mate (this seems to happen a lot in Hollywood films where the girl ends up with the tiny poor man instead of the strong rich man) but I stand by my view that this is still largely due to chemical reactions in our brain.  Trial and error, and instinct play large role at the root of everything romantic.To conclude with this final inspection of my views of perception and its relation to science and reality, I can’t help but wonder if my final views would have been different under different circumstances.  I alluded to this at the beginning of my Initial Paper, but there were something misgivings I had with my own analysis because deep down I felt they were not my own.  At least to a certain degree there was some negative influence on how I developed throughout the course.  It is my belief that this course was designed to present the students with alternate viewpoint and allow them to decide where they stood and then decide if they should amend it or not.  The course did its job, but not in the way I believe it was intended.    I personally felt that my own opinions were subtly influenced on the first day of class when we were told three things.  The first being that Professor Pachella’s views were of a more radical nature.  The second statement being that we would be hearing more dramatic points of view.  And finally, that we, as college students, have a tendency to agree with a constructionist viewpoint.  The cumulative effect for me was my development turned into a semester long process of choosing sides.  While Professor Pachella never explicitly said what he believed, at least for the majority of the semester, I felt that I was spending the rest of the semester trying to identify which viewpoints were the so-called “radical” viewpoints.  The conclusion I drew was that idealism and intuitionism were those radical viewpoints and that to agree or disagree with those viewpoints was to confirm or deny Professor Pachella’s views for myself.Regardless of what his actual views were, the nature of the introduction to the course left me wondering, in hindsight, what differences it would have made had I been left to figure out my opinions without any help.  I wonder if I would have been keener to the idea of being a constructionist if I had not been told that college students tend in that direction. I wonder if I would have had different feelings towards the extremes of each dimension.  Presently I feel that there is a negative connotation towards positive science and materialism because they seem to be the farther from what Professor Pachella’s views when compared to the other end of the spectrum.  This is not to say that I fall in step with a professor, but rather to say that those ends of the spectrum have the connotation of disagreement, while the other end – intuition and idealism – have the connotation of agreement.  My mind keeps wandering back to Percy’s “The Loss of the Creature”, where he explains his argument concerning information provided by experts.  Namely I relate this to where he says the impact made by the expert is unnecessary because it based on facts that other may not be interested in.  Yet, after those opinions are expressed, the layman is giving up their sovereignty of the situation by submitting to the expert’s opinion.  As I detailed in my paper, I felt Percy’s theory had much to be developed, I feel he was correct in this scenario.  As I conclude this course I wonder to what degree are the changes I have made in thinking my own, and to what degree I have unwittingly given up sovereignty to the expert.A major reason that I feel this way is that I like to think of myself as being unique, and so when someone tells me that I will feel something, I look for evidence that the opposite is true.  If someone tells me something is radical I look for reasons to believe otherwise and reasons to believe the opposing side to be more radical, or at the very least less favorable.  Just like what was described in “See What You Want to See”, I feel as though I spent a fair amount of time looking for reasons to justify everything I have just described.Yet through it all I appreciate the level of skepticism I have obtained from this course.  Regardless of what might have been, I find myself looking at my world through different eyes.  I enjoy bewildering my friends with theories and considerations I had not thought of before.  Whether it be love, religion, or an autobiography, I find myself not looking at any of it the same.  However, I think the only reason I can look at the world the way I do is because I look at it with a good combination of idealism, materialism, intuition, positive science, and constructionism as they each play a role, not totally dependent on each other, in my life.Being bilingual has so many positive cognitive effects on a person, however do these same results truly translate to someone who is fluent in their native tongue and the language of music?  The present study examined the effect of sight-reading ability on reading comprehension in college and high school students in the Ann Arbor and the Bloomfield Hills areas.  The first hypothesis was that reading-comprehension would improve when sight-reading excerpts of harder difficulty were coupled with paragraphs whose difficulty level was constant.  The second hypothesis was that the more musical experience a person has would negatively correlate with the time that it would take for them to complete the harder sight-reading tasks.  The study found that sight-reading had a significant effect on reading comprehension ability, and that constantly increasing the task difficulty magnified the effects.  The study also discovered no link between sight-reading performance and experience.  Results of this nature support the idea that music has similar cognitive effects on the brain as language, and that these effects can still be gained without being musically proficient.  It also allows for thoughts about comparing findings on the benefits of studying music with the methods and benefits of learning a second language.

Many studies have been conducted to determine the extent to which bilingualism affects other processes in the brain, from memory, to learning, to reading comprehension (Wodniecka, Craik, Luo, & Bialystok (2010), Siegal, Tallandini, Pellizzoni, & Michelin (2012), Corrigall & Trainor, 2011).  However, language is not the only thing that affects these parts of our brain.  Music has also been shown to play a role in some of these areas.  Studies have been done to determine if listening to Mozart as a makes you smarter (Rauscher, Shaw, & Ky, 1993), or if studying music as a child help executive functions.  How far could the effects of music go, and how similar is music to a language?  Music takes years of diligence to perfect and has countless rules regarding syntax and structure.  Also as is with language, musical interpretations of what is written or played are incredibly subjective.  These are all blatant similarities between music and language.   When looking closer at the effects of music on cognitive functions, putting learning music on the same level as learning a second language is quite conceivable.There are several parallels between the effects of music and the effects of bilingualism.  For instance a pair of studies done by George & Coch (2011) and Wodniecka et al. (2010) looked at the effects of music and bilingualism on memory, respectively.  Both studies found a positive connection between music or bilingualism and working memory.  Another set of studies conducted by Siegal, Tallandini et al. (2012) and Ghasemtabar, Mofid, Mohammadi & Ghasemtabar, (2011) found a similar link, however this time between music or bilingualism, and learning.Another study determined evidence to support the notion that music experience aids reading comprehension (Corrigall & Trainor, 2011).  Though this gives evidence to show that music is impactful on the process addressed in the study, it does not address the question of the impact of musical skill and sight-reading on reading comprehension.  The amount of research linking music and bilingualism to similar cognitive activities goes on, giving credence to the notion that music has similar cognitive effects as language. A number of studies focused on the links between musical ability and executing cognitive tasks.  One study by Anderson & Fuller, (2010) looked at the relationship between high school students listening to music while studying and their ability to preform school related tasks.  The result also showed positive connections between ability and functioning.  These studies show links between reading comprehension and listening to music, but none have looked at the effect of musical expertise on reading comprehension in the context of sight-reading1.  Under the assumption that music has similar effects as language on brain functioning, sight-reading and reading comprehension links could have major implications on learning a second language or learning in multiple languages.The present study was designed to address an unexplored area of the links between music and reading comprehension.  The goal of the study was focused on determining if sight-reading music had any noticeable effects on the ability of a person to maintain baseline levels of reading comprehension.  Completion times of the paragraphs and sight-reading excerpts were measured on the online survey site called Qualtrics.  Each completion time was measured after pairing standardized paragraphs with photographs of sheet music excerpts of varying difficulty (Figure 1 and 2) and looking at the effect each sight-reading excerpt had on the time it took to read the paragraph that followed.  Musical ability and cognitive impairment from the sight-reading were assessed simultaneously.  Musical ability was determined with sight-reading skill as its predictor (Gromko, 2004).  The first hypothesis going into this study is that cognitive impairment of reading comprehension ability will decrease as the difficulty of the sight-reading excerpt increases, the second is that sight-reading skill and this change will be moderated by experience.

This study was of pre-test post-test design study using with-in groups methods.  The independent variable was the difficulty of the sight-reading excerpts preceding each non-baseline paragraph.  The dependent variables measured were the reaction times to both the sight-reading excerpts and the paragraphs.

Prior to the distribution of the survey 14 people (Min age 18, Max age 54, M, SD unknown) were asked to read through the paragraphs that would be presented to those involved in the main study.  These participants were recruited via e-mail, and results were anonymous.  However, some of the participants responded with an e-mail letting the researcher know they had completed the readings.  This was how the age data was found.Concerning the main survey, originally 120 participants took part in this study, however after screening for outliers and erroneous responses2, as well as checking for responses that did not give usable data4, only 71 sets of responses were included in this study.  Twenty-six (36.6%) of the participants identified as male and forty-five (63.4%) identified as female.  Fifty-eight participants identified themselves as white Caucasian, four identified as Asian, four identified as Asian American and the remaining five identified themselves as Hispanic, Native American, or “other” with no further specifications.  The participants were involved in either the Andover High School music program or the Michigan Marching Band with an age range from 14 to 23 (M = 19.25 yrs., SD = 1.97 yrs.).  Participants also strongly represented a wide range of major disciplines of collegiate study as well as instrumentations (Figure 3). Each participant was contacted via e-mail, participating at his or her leisure, and had to consent prior to cooperation.  Participants were compensated with a picture of a kitten after completing the tasks.
One control variable was used in this study – the difficulty of the paragraphs.  Paragraph difficulty was operationalized as the time spent critically reading each paragraph.  The control difficulty was determined in a separate survey taken by the 14 participants prior to the release of the main study survey.

The moderator variable was experience with playing an instrument.  Two measures were taken to gather data about this variable.  First participants were asked for the number of years spent playing what each he or she identified as his or her main instrument.  Second was the number of years that they studied or played music.

The first of the two dependent variables of interest – sight-reading skill – was recorded via a timer option in Qualtrics which was set to time how long participants spent on pages of interest.  To measure this, each participant was presented with a sight-reading excerpt of easy difficulty (Figure 1) and hard difficulty (Figure 2).  The lengths of the excerpts were by determined by an unbiased pilot tester with moderate sight-reading ability and musical skill.  They were asked to sight-read each piece for 60 seconds.  Their start measure and end measure were marked, thus determining the bounds of the excerpt.  Each participant’s skill at sight-reading was then determined by looking at the overall time, and change in time, it took to complete the task between the easy and the hard sight-reading.  From there a proportion was constructed as such:  (Easy time – Hard time) /  (Easy time).  This was done to standardize the difference between each participants individual easy and hard sight-reading times, i.e. making response times like 5 and 6 seconds comparable to times like 45 and 46 seconds.  The excerpts were presented in a random order. The second dependent variable measured was reading comprehension. In the context of the survey, reading comprehension ability was determined by recording the time taken to completely read through each paragraph.  This resulted in three separate completion times for each participant.  Each paragraph was presented under different distractions and times were again recorded via Qualtrics.  The baseline paragraph had no distractions (the sight-reading excerpts), one paragraph followed the easy distraction and another paragraph followed the hard distraction.

The instrumentation of the participants was requested3.  There were 34 Woodwinds (Alto Saxophone, Clarinet, Flute, Oboe, Piccolo, Tenor Saxophone), 27 Brass (Euphonium, French Horn, Trombone, Trumpet, Tuba), 5 Piano, 3 Percussion, 1 Mandolin, and 1 “other”.  


Participants in the reading task, pre-survey section of the study, were presented with the paragraphs randomly in one of the 6 possible order permutations.  Additionally before any testing was done, a pilot tester was asked to sight-read through a number of pieces for 60 seconds.  Their start measure and finish measure were marked, and then two (one easy, one hard) excerpts were chosen, transcribed for both treble and bass clef, then added to the survey.	Participants of the survey were contacted via e-mail to participate in this study.  Upon consenting, participants were asked a few demographic questions as well as for what the primary instrument he or she plays, how long they have been playing it, and how long they have been playing music or studying music.	Following this participants were randomly split up into two groups by the Qualtrics software.  The first group was presented with a paragraph that they were asked to read.  Upon completion the participant clicked “next” and Qualtrics recorded the amount of time they spent on the screen.  This time was used as a baseline time for the rest of that trial of the study.  On the following page participants answered two easy questions about the paragraph.  These questions were asked to try to maintain the participants interest in reading each paragraph critically, as opposed to skimming each paragraph as one might do while pleasure reading.  Then a neutral static picture was displayed and they were informed they were about to be given an excerpt to sight-read.  They were also instructed to do anything they might when normally sight-reading a piece of music, i.e. finger an instrument, tongue, hum the melody, etc…  All sight-readings were presented in both treble and bass clef so all participants could sight-read without a problem5. The sight-reading piece was the easy piece as shown in figure 1.  After the participants finished sight-reading, they were given another paragraph to read and another set of questions to answer.  This was then followed by another neutral picture and another prompt regarding the second sight-reading.  This time the sight-reading was more difficult, as shown in figure 2, and upon completion participants read a third and final paragraph.  When finished with that paragraph, the participants were thanked for their time and presented with an adorable kitten picture as compensation for their efforts and help.	The second group of participants was presented with the paragraphs in the same order, however the sight-reading difficulties were swapped.  This group saw the hard sight-reading excerpt before the easy sight-reading excerpt.  After the survey concluded the obligation of the participant ended as all results were recorded and stored by Qualtrics.


The first test to be conducted—a three way repeated measures general-linear-model (GLM) test — will be conducted on the pre-survey test data used to determine if the paragraphs were of comparable difficulty.The following tests will be used to test the main hypotheses; sight-reading will have a significant effect on ability to effectively complete a reading comprehension task and experience will predict sight-reading skill and moderate its impact.  Another three way repeated measures GLM test will be used to determine whether there is a difference between the times it took to complete each paragraph under each condition (difficulty of sight-reading excerpt that preceded it).  Finally, two pearson correlation tests will be conducted.  The first between years of experience and the sight-reading difference proportion and the second between years of experience with each participant’s main instrument and sight-reading difference proportion.  This will check the link the between experience and skill in reading music.  In addition to the findings of Gromko (2004) this will further clarify the link between experience and skill.  

The repeated measures GLM test conducted on the completion times of the paragraphs without distraction did not yield statistically significant results F(2,12) = .50, p = .62.  This was the desired result because it implies the difficulty between the paragraphs is comparable and does not invalidate the following results of the study.

Based on the past research concerning bilingual and musical effects on various cognitive tasks, the first hypothesis predicted that increasing the musical distractions, i.e. difficulty of sight-reading excerpt, prior to the paragraphs would increase reading comprehension ability.  The results support this hypothesis as marginal means decreased between each trial.  There was, however, a significantly more drastic decrease when trials constantly increased distraction difficulty when compared to a decrease in difficulty going from the second to third trial.  This result remains consistent with other studies that have looked at how music has increased cognitive function and ability.  This was also especially interesting as it suggested that maturation was present.  There were effects of maturation evident from constant improvement of times across each paragraph.  Despite maturation being a usually undesired side effect, it had some very positive outcomes in this case.  When the sight-reading difficulty from the first sight-reading to the second, the improvement was much greater then when difficulty decreased.   This shows that the maturation actually magnified the positive effects of music under certain ordering conditions.  More specifically, the consistent increase in distraction difficulty as opposed to random levels of distraction.	The second hypothesis was that years of experience would be correlated with the sight-reading proportion and that it would moderate the impact of sight-reading on reading comprehension ability.  The results from the correlation tests were different then originally expected, showing no significant correlation between years of experience and sight-reading skill.  Despite providing no evidence to support any part of the hypothesis, this result gives rise to a very important conclusion.  Experience is not necessarily a factor in gaining the benefits of studying music; simply having some knowledge of how to sight-read may be enough.  When undertaking the sight-reading tasks just seeing something familiar, a do-able task, something that caused higher level brain function in the participants could have been enough to prime the prime his or her brain for the further upper level thinking involved in the following task.	When concerning the strengths and weaknesses of the study it is observed that all main validities put to consideration have both fine points as well as flaws.  First and most straight forward is the statistical validity.  It is higher then the other validities since the probabilities support the first hypothesis, and reject the second.  Both of these conclusions were presorted and thoroughly analyzed.  In addition the sample size was large (74 > 30 people needed for the Central Limit Theorem) enough that statistical results were reliable.	The construct validity had one main flaw.  There are clear evidence of maturation, as can be seen most distinctly in figure 4.  However, the maturation yielded some interesting results.  It showed that people adapt well to consistent increase in difficulty and less well to less linear difficulty increases.  The flaws in the construct validity actually yielded a more interesting result that coincided with the original hypothesis as was evident and explained above.In terms of the study’s generalizability the external validity was upheld nicely because a wide range of both majors and instrumentation were included.  These two factors work well to ensure that multiple types of personalities (Bell & Cresswell, 1984) and mind types6.  There was also an age range of nearly a decade, allowing for results to be more easily generalized across student ages.That being said, the study neglected musicians of an older age.  Also string instrumentalists involved in the study had low representation, other then the 5 pianists.  Another flaw was that the sample population consisted only of members of the Michigan Marching Band and Andover High School music students.  Since this type of threat to validity mostly stems from a concern that multiple mindsets of different people are not included, the fact that many majors and instruments were surveyed, this particularly specific range of participants does not have as large of a negative effect on the validity.The internal validity had the most flaws.  Firstly there was a limitation of sight-reading ability assessment.  This was inevitable due to monetary and time constraints, however, ideally there would have been professionals to listen to participants playing the music after sight reading it.  Another failing was that there was limited assessment for reading comprehension skill, however, this is less of an issue because the study did not look for skill but rather for levels of impairment.The study also did not account for distractions in the area of where the participants took the survey.  Some participants reported back that they were severely distracted by other things while they were responding, so their responses were discounted.  Others were removed because of suspicious looking data.  However it could have been the case that upon seeing a hard sight-reading after the easy could have discouraged the participant from paying close attention to what they were doing, thereby speeding up his or her time.  This possibility could not have been screened for in the present study, however, all of these flaws could have been improved by having a special testing area.  This did not happen because, again, constraints of time and resources made it difficult.There were also successful aspects of the internal validity.  For one, a good temporal precedence was set up by the addition of the baseline paragraph.  There was also clear evidence of covariance between paragraph response time and sight-reading difficulty.	Given that the first hypothesis was confirmed by the data, more evidence is presented to support the claim that music may very well have the same cognitive effects as language.  However, it should be noted that it does not prove this claim, as there should be many more studies conducted to test this more extensively.  Under the assumption that this true, there are a number of implications that can be inferred.  The first of which is that the current shrinking of music programs in schools has a negative effect on the schools performance rates in other areas of study.  Some students may not have an aptitude for language, but do for music.  Upgrading music programs will give those students a method of getting the cognitive benefits of learning another language despite an aptitude deficiency.  The results also suggest that parents should have their children try to learn an instrument when they are young.There are also many implications in the direction of teaching methods of languages.  These findings suggest that a great way of teaching languages would be to start a lesson with something easy in every topic that is to be covered.  Even if it means additional review of an easy topic, the goal of this being to prime student’s brains for more difficult tasks.  Then slowly increase the difficulty as the class goes on.  While this is a typical style of teaching a course, it may not be the style of teaching single lessons and is worthwhile to consider so that students get the most out of every lesson.There are many possible future studies that this study opens doors to.  First would be a repeat of this study to improve upon the flaws.  Another possible study would be to alter existing studies that involve listening to music by removing the auditory factor out and replacing it with a measure of actual musical skill.  Other studies could be run to provide further links between bilingualism effects and musical effects.  Finally, it would be prudent to do a study comparing test scores of schools with well-integrated music programs compared to those without.  The prediction for all of these studies would be that where musical expertise was higher, there would be an increase in cognitive abilities as well.

All original hypotheses were devised to extrapolate on the implications of the Stroop effect.  More specifically, they were thought up to test the difference of the Stroop effect between English and Spanish.  The findings of the study suggest that these hypotheses do in fact have a good deal of merit in their accuracy.  In summary, this experiment was conducted in order to determine if the language of color names had an effect on the score of a Stroop test, and if it was affected by the fluency of the subject taking the test.  This question was tested by testing of the three hypotheses: the Stroop effect will be stronger in English than in Spanish, this difference will be smaller for students who are more fluent in Spanish compared to less fluent in Spanish, and that greater fluency in a given language will positively correlate with size of Stroop effect in that language.  And these hypotheses were tested via a Qualtircs application that provided Stroop score for both English and Spanish colors.  The results were overwhelming in that all data returned significant p-values, which allowed for the assumption that the hypotheses are correct.	A few key aspects of the study nicely support the assumption that the hypotheses are correct.  For one, the sample size was quite large.  A sample size of 30 is generally the minimum sample size to allow for normal assumptions when doing statistical tests, and this study had nearly 8 times that amount.  That alone greatly increases the probability having both favorable and reliable statistical results.  Also the p-values found were much more reliable and the assumptions made from them are much more likely to be accurate as a result, ensuring good statistical validity.  Another aspect is that the study has high construct validity.  The variable in question was a Stroop score, and the Stroop test and a control test were administered and timed by a computer.  Therefore, it is safe to assume the resulting numbers and differences between groups did test for the variable in question*.	However, for all the things the study did well there were some shortcomings to match.  First and foremost of these being the questionability of the operationalized definition of the variables.  The survey tests for fluency, which means the survey is checking for a completeness of command of a language.  The Stroop test does not test for fluency in a language, but rather it tests how well the participant knows 5 common colors.  Therefore someone completely fluent could preform worse then someone significantly less fluent if the colors are more salient for the less fluent person.  A future study might add in a page of English and Spanish colors written solely in black, then use the statistic—(Spanish score - English score)/English score—to conduct another correlation test to see if fluency in colors is closely correlated to general fluency.Another very important failing of the study was that it was demographically unbalanced.  Of the females to males was nearly 3:1.  To remove the possibility of female responses skewing the results, or more simply, to show that each gender interprets the Stroop test the same, further analysis must be done.  Since there were more then 30 males and females tested, normality can be assumed, and therefore an ANOVA test would settle this matter quickly.  If it turns out that there is a difference it could very well lead to future studies about the differences in language processing between genders.	On a similar note, the sample population was predominantly Caucasian—nearly 70%.  Generalizing to all difference races, nationalities and languages backgrounds becomes very difficult with such a narrow racial range.  In addition the population was mostly people of age 20, and over 90% of the participants fell in the range of 19-22.  This makes for a difficult generalization to the public, but more importantly it helps support the notion of a flawed operationalized definition of fluency since it overlooks young children just starting to learn a language.  One of the first vocabulary sets introduced to fledglings of a language is “colors”.  Testing this younger population is important in seeing if fluency is the best predictor versus color fluency.	There were also some issues with the set up of the study.  First off, it was conducted were all participants were in a room with several others.  Being in the presence of others very likely had an effect on the resulting scores, improving them the more second nature the task was and the opposite the less so it is (CITE THIS).  In addition seeing a person move faster through the study then they are could raise frustration levels or a negative form of performance anxiety, slowing down the scores because of the distraction.  A simple correction to this would be redoing the study and isolating the participants.	Finally, there is issue with the way the experiment was presented.  Each participant knew about the Stroop test, and the goals of a study.  With the knowledge that the test was a Stroop test, the results are quite confounded.  A number of unforeseen consequences could have ensued as a result like a slowing of the overall time of completion—the English part because they might now want to have a large Stroop effect on their score, and the Spanish part because of added anxiety about what was being tested. They could have also tried to alter the results by changing responses on the survey, like fluency levels, or intentionally distort their completion times.	Under the assumption that these hypotheses are in fact all correct, future studies might look at methods of teaching new languages. More specifically they might chose to avoid a more aesthetic and exciting approach for even if they are being taught to elementary school students to see if it results in better learning.  This would be consistent with the Stroop study because various fonts and colors would distract from the actual words.  Another study could look at advertising for stores with names or words in different languages.  Looking at whether simpler is better for a budding company with an unrecognizable name to display their title without fancy colors and fonts.