Being bilingual has so many positive cognitive effects on a person, however do these same results truly translate to someone who is fluent in their native tongue and the language of music?  The present study examined the effect of sight-reading ability on reading comprehension in college and high school students in the Ann Arbor and the Bloomfield Hills areas.  The first hypothesis was that reading-comprehension would improve when sight-reading excerpts of harder difficulty were coupled with paragraphs whose difficulty level was constant.  The second hypothesis was that the more musical experience a person has would negatively correlate with the time that it would take for them to complete the harder sight-reading tasks.  The study found that sight-reading had a significant effect on reading comprehension ability, and that constantly increasing the task difficulty magnified the effects.  The study also discovered no link between sight-reading performance and experience.  Results of this nature support the idea that music has similar cognitive effects on the brain as language, and that these effects can still be gained without being musically proficient.  It also allows for thoughts about comparing findings on the benefits of studying music with the methods and benefits of learning a second language.

Many studies have been conducted to determine the extent to which bilingualism affects other processes in the brain, from memory, to learning, to reading comprehension (Wodniecka, Craik, Luo, & Bialystok (2010), Siegal, Tallandini, Pellizzoni, & Michelin (2012), Corrigall & Trainor, 2011).  However, language is not the only thing that affects these parts of our brain.  Music has also been shown to play a role in some of these areas.  Studies have been done to determine if listening to Mozart as a makes you smarter (Rauscher, Shaw, & Ky, 1993), or if studying music as a child help executive functions.  How far could the effects of music go, and how similar is music to a language?  Music takes years of diligence to perfect and has countless rules regarding syntax and structure.  Also as is with language, musical interpretations of what is written or played are incredibly subjective.  These are all blatant similarities between music and language.   When looking closer at the effects of music on cognitive functions, putting learning music on the same level as learning a second language is quite conceivable.There are several parallels between the effects of music and the effects of bilingualism.  For instance a pair of studies done by George & Coch (2011) and Wodniecka et al. (2010) looked at the effects of music and bilingualism on memory, respectively.  Both studies found a positive connection between music or bilingualism and working memory.  Another set of studies conducted by Siegal, Tallandini et al. (2012) and Ghasemtabar, Mofid, Mohammadi & Ghasemtabar, (2011) found a similar link, however this time between music or bilingualism, and learning.Another study determined evidence to support the notion that music experience aids reading comprehension (Corrigall & Trainor, 2011).  Though this gives evidence to show that music is impactful on the process addressed in the study, it does not address the question of the impact of musical skill and sight-reading on reading comprehension.  The amount of research linking music and bilingualism to similar cognitive activities goes on, giving credence to the notion that music has similar cognitive effects as language. A number of studies focused on the links between musical ability and executing cognitive tasks.  One study by Anderson & Fuller, (2010) looked at the relationship between high school students listening to music while studying and their ability to preform school related tasks.  The result also showed positive connections between ability and functioning.  These studies show links between reading comprehension and listening to music, but none have looked at the effect of musical expertise on reading comprehension in the context of sight-reading1.  Under the assumption that music has similar effects as language on brain functioning, sight-reading and reading comprehension links could have major implications on learning a second language or learning in multiple languages.The present study was designed to address an unexplored area of the links between music and reading comprehension.  The goal of the study was focused on determining if sight-reading music had any noticeable effects on the ability of a person to maintain baseline levels of reading comprehension.  Completion times of the paragraphs and sight-reading excerpts were measured on the online survey site called Qualtrics.  Each completion time was measured after pairing standardized paragraphs with photographs of sheet music excerpts of varying difficulty (Figure 1 and 2) and looking at the effect each sight-reading excerpt had on the time it took to read the paragraph that followed.  Musical ability and cognitive impairment from the sight-reading were assessed simultaneously.  Musical ability was determined with sight-reading skill as its predictor (Gromko, 2004).  The first hypothesis going into this study is that cognitive impairment of reading comprehension ability will decrease as the difficulty of the sight-reading excerpt increases, the second is that sight-reading skill and this change will be moderated by experience.

This study was of pre-test post-test design study using with-in groups methods.  The independent variable was the difficulty of the sight-reading excerpts preceding each non-baseline paragraph.  The dependent variables measured were the reaction times to both the sight-reading excerpts and the paragraphs.

Prior to the distribution of the survey 14 people (Min age 18, Max age 54, M, SD unknown) were asked to read through the paragraphs that would be presented to those involved in the main study.  These participants were recruited via e-mail, and results were anonymous.  However, some of the participants responded with an e-mail letting the researcher know they had completed the readings.  This was how the age data was found.Concerning the main survey, originally 120 participants took part in this study, however after screening for outliers and erroneous responses2, as well as checking for responses that did not give usable data4, only 71 sets of responses were included in this study.  Twenty-six (36.6%) of the participants identified as male and forty-five (63.4%) identified as female.  Fifty-eight participants identified themselves as white Caucasian, four identified as Asian, four identified as Asian American and the remaining five identified themselves as Hispanic, Native American, or “other” with no further specifications.  The participants were involved in either the Andover High School music program or the Michigan Marching Band with an age range from 14 to 23 (M = 19.25 yrs., SD = 1.97 yrs.).  Participants also strongly represented a wide range of major disciplines of collegiate study as well as instrumentations (Figure 3). Each participant was contacted via e-mail, participating at his or her leisure, and had to consent prior to cooperation.  Participants were compensated with a picture of a kitten after completing the tasks.
One control variable was used in this study – the difficulty of the paragraphs.  Paragraph difficulty was operationalized as the time spent critically reading each paragraph.  The control difficulty was determined in a separate survey taken by the 14 participants prior to the release of the main study survey.

The moderator variable was experience with playing an instrument.  Two measures were taken to gather data about this variable.  First participants were asked for the number of years spent playing what each he or she identified as his or her main instrument.  Second was the number of years that they studied or played music.

The first of the two dependent variables of interest – sight-reading skill – was recorded via a timer option in Qualtrics which was set to time how long participants spent on pages of interest.  To measure this, each participant was presented with a sight-reading excerpt of easy difficulty (Figure 1) and hard difficulty (Figure 2).  The lengths of the excerpts were by determined by an unbiased pilot tester with moderate sight-reading ability and musical skill.  They were asked to sight-read each piece for 60 seconds.  Their start measure and end measure were marked, thus determining the bounds of the excerpt.  Each participant’s skill at sight-reading was then determined by looking at the overall time, and change in time, it took to complete the task between the easy and the hard sight-reading.  From there a proportion was constructed as such:  (Easy time – Hard time) /  (Easy time).  This was done to standardize the difference between each participants individual easy and hard sight-reading times, i.e. making response times like 5 and 6 seconds comparable to times like 45 and 46 seconds.  The excerpts were presented in a random order. The second dependent variable measured was reading comprehension. In the context of the survey, reading comprehension ability was determined by recording the time taken to completely read through each paragraph.  This resulted in three separate completion times for each participant.  Each paragraph was presented under different distractions and times were again recorded via Qualtrics.  The baseline paragraph had no distractions (the sight-reading excerpts), one paragraph followed the easy distraction and another paragraph followed the hard distraction.

The instrumentation of the participants was requested3.  There were 34 Woodwinds (Alto Saxophone, Clarinet, Flute, Oboe, Piccolo, Tenor Saxophone), 27 Brass (Euphonium, French Horn, Trombone, Trumpet, Tuba), 5 Piano, 3 Percussion, 1 Mandolin, and 1 “other”.  


Participants in the reading task, pre-survey section of the study, were presented with the paragraphs randomly in one of the 6 possible order permutations.  Additionally before any testing was done, a pilot tester was asked to sight-read through a number of pieces for 60 seconds.  Their start measure and finish measure were marked, and then two (one easy, one hard) excerpts were chosen, transcribed for both treble and bass clef, then added to the survey.	Participants of the survey were contacted via e-mail to participate in this study.  Upon consenting, participants were asked a few demographic questions as well as for what the primary instrument he or she plays, how long they have been playing it, and how long they have been playing music or studying music.	Following this participants were randomly split up into two groups by the Qualtrics software.  The first group was presented with a paragraph that they were asked to read.  Upon completion the participant clicked “next” and Qualtrics recorded the amount of time they spent on the screen.  This time was used as a baseline time for the rest of that trial of the study.  On the following page participants answered two easy questions about the paragraph.  These questions were asked to try to maintain the participants interest in reading each paragraph critically, as opposed to skimming each paragraph as one might do while pleasure reading.  Then a neutral static picture was displayed and they were informed they were about to be given an excerpt to sight-read.  They were also instructed to do anything they might when normally sight-reading a piece of music, i.e. finger an instrument, tongue, hum the melody, etc…  All sight-readings were presented in both treble and bass clef so all participants could sight-read without a problem5. The sight-reading piece was the easy piece as shown in figure 1.  After the participants finished sight-reading, they were given another paragraph to read and another set of questions to answer.  This was then followed by another neutral picture and another prompt regarding the second sight-reading.  This time the sight-reading was more difficult, as shown in figure 2, and upon completion participants read a third and final paragraph.  When finished with that paragraph, the participants were thanked for their time and presented with an adorable kitten picture as compensation for their efforts and help.	The second group of participants was presented with the paragraphs in the same order, however the sight-reading difficulties were swapped.  This group saw the hard sight-reading excerpt before the easy sight-reading excerpt.  After the survey concluded the obligation of the participant ended as all results were recorded and stored by Qualtrics.


The first test to be conducted—a three way repeated measures general-linear-model (GLM) test — will be conducted on the pre-survey test data used to determine if the paragraphs were of comparable difficulty.The following tests will be used to test the main hypotheses; sight-reading will have a significant effect on ability to effectively complete a reading comprehension task and experience will predict sight-reading skill and moderate its impact.  Another three way repeated measures GLM test will be used to determine whether there is a difference between the times it took to complete each paragraph under each condition (difficulty of sight-reading excerpt that preceded it).  Finally, two pearson correlation tests will be conducted.  The first between years of experience and the sight-reading difference proportion and the second between years of experience with each participant’s main instrument and sight-reading difference proportion.  This will check the link the between experience and skill in reading music.  In addition to the findings of Gromko (2004) this will further clarify the link between experience and skill.  

The repeated measures GLM test conducted on the completion times of the paragraphs without distraction did not yield statistically significant results F(2,12) = .50, p = .62.  This was the desired result because it implies the difficulty between the paragraphs is comparable and does not invalidate the following results of the study.

Based on the past research concerning bilingual and musical effects on various cognitive tasks, the first hypothesis predicted that increasing the musical distractions, i.e. difficulty of sight-reading excerpt, prior to the paragraphs would increase reading comprehension ability.  The results support this hypothesis as marginal means decreased between each trial.  There was, however, a significantly more drastic decrease when trials constantly increased distraction difficulty when compared to a decrease in difficulty going from the second to third trial.  This result remains consistent with other studies that have looked at how music has increased cognitive function and ability.  This was also especially interesting as it suggested that maturation was present.  There were effects of maturation evident from constant improvement of times across each paragraph.  Despite maturation being a usually undesired side effect, it had some very positive outcomes in this case.  When the sight-reading difficulty from the first sight-reading to the second, the improvement was much greater then when difficulty decreased.   This shows that the maturation actually magnified the positive effects of music under certain ordering conditions.  More specifically, the consistent increase in distraction difficulty as opposed to random levels of distraction.	The second hypothesis was that years of experience would be correlated with the sight-reading proportion and that it would moderate the impact of sight-reading on reading comprehension ability.  The results from the correlation tests were different then originally expected, showing no significant correlation between years of experience and sight-reading skill.  Despite providing no evidence to support any part of the hypothesis, this result gives rise to a very important conclusion.  Experience is not necessarily a factor in gaining the benefits of studying music; simply having some knowledge of how to sight-read may be enough.  When undertaking the sight-reading tasks just seeing something familiar, a do-able task, something that caused higher level brain function in the participants could have been enough to prime the prime his or her brain for the further upper level thinking involved in the following task.	When concerning the strengths and weaknesses of the study it is observed that all main validities put to consideration have both fine points as well as flaws.  First and most straight forward is the statistical validity.  It is higher then the other validities since the probabilities support the first hypothesis, and reject the second.  Both of these conclusions were presorted and thoroughly analyzed.  In addition the sample size was large (74 > 30 people needed for the Central Limit Theorem) enough that statistical results were reliable.	The construct validity had one main flaw.  There are clear evidence of maturation, as can be seen most distinctly in figure 4.  However, the maturation yielded some interesting results.  It showed that people adapt well to consistent increase in difficulty and less well to less linear difficulty increases.  The flaws in the construct validity actually yielded a more interesting result that coincided with the original hypothesis as was evident and explained above.In terms of the study’s generalizability the external validity was upheld nicely because a wide range of both majors and instrumentation were included.  These two factors work well to ensure that multiple types of personalities (Bell & Cresswell, 1984) and mind types6.  There was also an age range of nearly a decade, allowing for results to be more easily generalized across student ages.That being said, the study neglected musicians of an older age.  Also string instrumentalists involved in the study had low representation, other then the 5 pianists.  Another flaw was that the sample population consisted only of members of the Michigan Marching Band and Andover High School music students.  Since this type of threat to validity mostly stems from a concern that multiple mindsets of different people are not included, the fact that many majors and instruments were surveyed, this particularly specific range of participants does not have as large of a negative effect on the validity.The internal validity had the most flaws.  Firstly there was a limitation of sight-reading ability assessment.  This was inevitable due to monetary and time constraints, however, ideally there would have been professionals to listen to participants playing the music after sight reading it.  Another failing was that there was limited assessment for reading comprehension skill, however, this is less of an issue because the study did not look for skill but rather for levels of impairment.The study also did not account for distractions in the area of where the participants took the survey.  Some participants reported back that they were severely distracted by other things while they were responding, so their responses were discounted.  Others were removed because of suspicious looking data.  However it could have been the case that upon seeing a hard sight-reading after the easy could have discouraged the participant from paying close attention to what they were doing, thereby speeding up his or her time.  This possibility could not have been screened for in the present study, however, all of these flaws could have been improved by having a special testing area.  This did not happen because, again, constraints of time and resources made it difficult.There were also successful aspects of the internal validity.  For one, a good temporal precedence was set up by the addition of the baseline paragraph.  There was also clear evidence of covariance between paragraph response time and sight-reading difficulty.	Given that the first hypothesis was confirmed by the data, more evidence is presented to support the claim that music may very well have the same cognitive effects as language.  However, it should be noted that it does not prove this claim, as there should be many more studies conducted to test this more extensively.  Under the assumption that this true, there are a number of implications that can be inferred.  The first of which is that the current shrinking of music programs in schools has a negative effect on the schools performance rates in other areas of study.  Some students may not have an aptitude for language, but do for music.  Upgrading music programs will give those students a method of getting the cognitive benefits of learning another language despite an aptitude deficiency.  The results also suggest that parents should have their children try to learn an instrument when they are young.There are also many implications in the direction of teaching methods of languages.  These findings suggest that a great way of teaching languages would be to start a lesson with something easy in every topic that is to be covered.  Even if it means additional review of an easy topic, the goal of this being to prime student’s brains for more difficult tasks.  Then slowly increase the difficulty as the class goes on.  While this is a typical style of teaching a course, it may not be the style of teaching single lessons and is worthwhile to consider so that students get the most out of every lesson.There are many possible future studies that this study opens doors to.  First would be a repeat of this study to improve upon the flaws.  Another possible study would be to alter existing studies that involve listening to music by removing the auditory factor out and replacing it with a measure of actual musical skill.  Other studies could be run to provide further links between bilingualism effects and musical effects.  Finally, it would be prudent to do a study comparing test scores of schools with well-integrated music programs compared to those without.  The prediction for all of these studies would be that where musical expertise was higher, there would be an increase in cognitive abilities as well.

