At the beginning of the semester I attempted to outline my beliefs regarding the relationship between science perception and reality.  In the initial paper, I began by detailing my grievance with the Cartesian scale defined in class that described how science and reality related  to the outside world.  I continued that idea when I contemplated where I stood on the metaphysical scale and found that I was rooted well within the realm of the materialist.  My attributions, among other things, were to my up bring and academic disposition to the hard sciences.  However, I found it hard to define where I stood on the Epistemological scale because there were certain things that my view held consistent with both extremes.  This whole discrepancy I had was clearly rooted in my initial grievance with the scaling system.  I then concluded with contemplation about religion and love, and how I could not comprehend certain positions regarding the aforementioned ideas because of the premises such conclusions, like the existence of God would require.  Now, after months of exploring alternate ideologies and extremes of the spectrum, I have reflected upon the conclusions I made at the outset of the course.  Much of what I felt then has since changed, and if not in my fundamental views of each topic then in how I feel my positions should be supported.Before discussing where I stand on the Cartesian scale of perception, there are parts of the scale that I still disagree with.  The most fundamental disagreement is the idea that we cannot classify the relation between perception, and reality and science on a two-dimensional scale.  After a semester of discussing the nature perception from so many different vantage points, having it all summed up on a sliding scale is too much of an oversimplification. As it stands now, I feel as though defining myself on this scale is to define the ratio of how often I agree with one extreme of the scale versus the other.  This makes we wonder because I feel intuition plays as much a role in understanding the world that positive science does.  Should I be defined as a constructionist on this account, even if none of my views are fundamentally consistent with that of a true constructionist?  Or in a similar situation where my views about materialism versus idealism are equally split as well? It is my belief that there should be some better method of determining how we stand on the Cartesian plane.  For example, we discussed the science of color and the tri-chromatic theory of vision.  I whole-heartedly believe and support the idea that there are certain wavelengths of lights that invoke similar reactions among all those who can distinguish those colors.  I accept the notions put forth by scientific reason, and results the scientific method has produced.  However, in a relatively unrelated topic of Abstract Algebra, I whole-heartedly believe that everything discovered was, on its most elementary level, conceived as the product of intuition.  I believe that given the most basic axioms of Group, Ring, Field etc. theory, one with sufficient intuitive power can discern everything that has already been discovered in that area.With this in mind, I do believe that the scale presented has the right approach, but there needs to be a method by which one can define themselves (if they so choose) in a myriad of situations, as opposed to the generality that the current two-dimensional scale forces upon us.  Now this being said, I think that on this train of though and with sufficient skepticism an infinite dimensional scale could be argued for as the only ideal system.  There are a seemingly infinite number of aspects of the world that could be looked at and questioned in relation to the perception dichotomy between the dimensions of epistemological and metaphysical thought.  On top of that there are billions of people that populate the earth (this all assuming you don’t believe that animals can achieve consciousness either) with their own viewpoints.  The only reason I mention this skepticism is that one of the main things I have come to truly understand about the differing views of perception in this course is that without skepticism it is impossible to properly consider alternate ideas.  As a result, I have developed a healthy skepticism of my own views and those around me.  But to summarize my thoughts on the perception scale, I believe that there is a relationship between perception and reality that is based in the upbringing of a person.  There are billions of people, all with different upbringings, which should warrant a revisiting to the Cartesian scale.  Adding dimensions to break apart our world in categories that can be more effectively analyzed.  Diminishing the stress of having defined ones self in such a general way.  With so many ways of viewing the world, I do not believe a two-dimensional model to be sufficient. 	In the “Initial Paper”, my grievance with the perception scale was most notable when I was discussing my epistemological views.  Yet I have found that even with my added understanding of the scale and its limits, my epistemological position changed least dramatically of the two dimensions.  In fact I believe it has remained consistent with where I started.  I believe that in gaining knowledge there are realms where the scientific method is incredibly crucial, while in other areas, intuition takes over.  However, much like I described in my grievance, I have found that being split between the two does not make me a constructionist.For example, my views of math are divided.  On one end I have the theoretical math, a type of math that, as I have said, I feel is solvable with nothing more then the axioms.  There are brilliant minds that have that have done exactly this.  More evidence for the power of intuition in theoretical math comes simple from the fact that there are those that cannot comprehend it.  If two people are given the same amount of explanation in the same way, and one can understand the explanation and one cannot, it must be asked, “how this can be possible?”  Since the extrinsic input is constant between the two people, it is their ability to learn without additional help that is the variable.  Therefore, it must have to do with the difference in how they can use their intuition to un-fog any confusion they might have.  In other words, people can have differing levels on intuition on this area, so by my account, if there is a difference in the intuition then intuition trivially must play a role in the acquisition of knowledge.Now on the opposing end I consider financial math.  Methods employed my financial mathematicians are those that have been employed by many others before them.  While change does occur, people often do not leave their decisions up to their own specific methods.  Concepts like the standardization of methods being easier to handle on the grand scale of worldwide business offer explanation as to why this is.  Based on this example I have found myself wanting new explanations for the reason that I feel the way I do.	My views have changed on the epistemological scale when I discuss how I conceive of the interrelation between the two ends (positive science and intuition).  For instance, there are many areas that I feel I can proceed easily after I have been provided with a few instances of methods for solving problems.  My intuition can been motivated in such a way that I adapt to figure out future problems.  From this perspective I have the means to gather information via intuition alone.  However, I find myself questioning the initial methods that lead me to this intuition.  Were those methods the product of scientific method, or where they the product of intuition?  Even if they are the product of intuition, if that intuition is not my own, is that better methods derived form the scientific method?  To know that answer to that would be to know the derivation of the intuition that lead to the method that my intuition is based upon. It is entirely possible that the intuition was built upon a trial-by-error method as well.  This closely resembles the scientific method in that one starts with a hypothesis and alters it until success is achieved.  As a result of everything I have considered since the semester began, I have found myself moving farther in the direction of positive science if simply because of the process of seeking the history of the methods that make up my intuition.  From that process, for intuition to be true, it would take pure intuition to be passed from thinker to thinker until it reached myself.  The chances of this are quite slim, so I feel it is much more likely that positive science has a role in many of the seemingly intuitive areas of consideration.	As I said in the Initial paper, my ideas about positive science versus intuition are heavily based in my up bringing.  As I will mention again with the Metaphysical, there is an undoubted connection between the two.  I grew up with the scientific method and therefore I have spent much of my life learning about how to phrase the accumulation of knowledge in the framed context of hypothesis and experiment.  While granted there is still much, like math, that I believe is largely based on the power of ones intuition, I feel that if my life had been left to how well I can gather knowledge on my own, as opposed gathering knowledge with the support of the scientific method, then my opinions would be closer to those supporting intuitionism.Come semester end, my metaphysical view has shifted significantly more towards the idealist end.  I cannot say for certain how far in that direction (for reasons other then my dislike of the two-dimensional scale).  I find myself torn between the two extremes as the situation changes.  I have found that on this scale, the situations do not have to differ so very much, and are still capable of being vastly different in my analysis.  I prime example of this happened to me a few nights ago.  I was pondering the idea of truth and its relation to memory.  I realized that there is no relaying of information that can happen that can also be completely trusted.  I came to this realization through two separate musings.  The first on what “truth” really is.  How its subjective nature makes is vulnerable to disbelief.  By this I mean that with a healthy level of skepticism, one can find reason to withhold belief of anything told to them.  Now this notion is much better supported via the idealist then the materialist.  The materialist believes in the concrete world out there.  Our perception is merely the result how the world behaves around us.  Therefore, any notions conveyed to them are, to them, rooted in a world independent of us.  If the person or thing conveying that knowledge to them believes they are speaking the truth, then for the materialist, there is no denying what they have been told.  However, for the idealist, the truth is relative to the mind detailing it.  Now if someone is obtaining knowledge, they would have to accept both the idea that whatever is conveying the information to them is not lying, and the idea that they way the information is being conveyed is being framed around a truth that is accepted by both the conveyor and conveyee.  Obviously, more has to coincide for the idealist to believe information then the materialist.Now my final discovery does not take the idea of truth any farther then this.  Instead it diverges into the realm of memory.  I am fascinated by the idea that our own memories could all be false.  The paper “Toward a Theory of Memory and Attention” (D. A. Norman, 1968) discusses the issues that can arise, and the implications of those issues, in the various stages of memory storage and retrieval.  My big take away from this is that the retrieval of our memories can be disrupted for any number of reasons.  Additionally, the paper “See What You Want to See: Motivational Influences on Visual Perception” (E. Balcetis and D. Dunning, 2006) describes a multitude of situations where the information that is encoded can be influenced by what we want to hear.  A couple of examples they bring up include not hearing or seeing negative words, interpreting a picture as they want to interpret it, and they discussion of how having an expectation makes searching for anything that goes against that expectation much less likely – confirming what they want to confirm.  My big take away form this paper was that our conscious/subconscious can play an important role in determining how we encode our memories.  Combining these two take-aways, I arrived at the conclusion that we cannot be sure if the retrieval of a memory was successful, and even if it was, that the memory wasn’t tampered with during its original encoding due to our motivations at the time.  Now combining this with my thoughts on memory, I decided to think of retrieval as an information provider to the mind from the brain, and that there is no way of knowing if that provider is providing what the mind believes to be true or not.  In others words, I have come to believe that we cannot trust our memory.As a side note, this is where I feel I can truly be an idealist.  Memories make up a large part of how I view my world.  It is how I recognize my favorite music, how I remember how to play songs on the piano, and explains why saying a four-letter word is such a difficult task.  Now, based on these assumptions, I feel it safe it assumes that a large part of how I view and interact with the world is directly related to my conscious.  To be more specific, I have come to feel that retrospective anything starts with the conscious and therefore and thing that requires retrospective anything is also, to a large degree begins with conscious.  With this all in mind I want to explore the similar situations that I mentioned earlier, and at the end of that I will be able to detail why I still can consider myself a materialist.The first situation is as follows.  I are reading a autobiography about someone.  This is the only biography of any kind about that person and so there is nothing to compare it to.  The question is how much can I truly believe what I have read, and how much of it can be taken at the word of the author.  While it is true that no one has an account of all that is written in the autobiography, it is also true, by my accounts, that I cannot be sure of any memory transcribed being accurate.  Now additionally by my accounts this is an example why I am an idealist in certain circumstances.The second scenario is slightly different.  Instead of an autobiography, I am reading a research paper.  For some reason I find this easier to believe then the autobiography.  There are two reasons for this.  The first being my upbringing.  As I mentioned in the Initial paper I grew up with a scientist father, and my interests are mathematical.  My hard science background undoubtedly has an effect on my increased willingness to believe something based in science and reason.  The other reason is that it is based in scientific reason.  What is written in the research paper is based on presumably immediate transcription of what transpired.  I find that the time for error is much less in this scenario.  I have thought about this and wondered what the difference between the two scenarios is and I have decided that it does not matter.  What matters is what is not different between the two.  The similarity is that the information was conveyed to me in the same way.  Therefore I have concluded that if there was no difference in how I received the information then the difference must be the result of something independent of myself.  The only thing left to consider is the difference between the situation, whose exact nature is still irrelevant.  The only think that matters is that those differences have nothing to do with me.  May they be the nature of how the information was transcribed, or perhaps by the subject matter that is being conveyed.  Regardless, it all acknowledges that something in the outside world had an effect on my perception of the material, namely how convinced I am that what I am reading is true.  This is a prime example of why I still consider myself a materialist.	This examination also brings to light something else that has I believe effects how one perceives anything from an metaphysical standpoint.  If a person knows their academic dispositions, then they can better predict to what degree they will view something as the product of the conscious or the product of the outside world.  In my case I viewed the scientific journal as being more complete when compared to the autobiography.  It is possible that these feelings could be reversed if being viewed through the eyes of a historian who did not care much about scientific discovery.	This idea is also moderately consistent with the views put forth in “The Loss of the Creature” (W. Percy, 1989).  In it he argues that people’s perception of a situation is altered when they are given information from different sources.  He discusses the Grand Canyon first, and describes those “different sources” as being things like guidebooks, tours, articles, and word of mouth.  The relation between this and my views is that I find that someone is more likely to look up and research what interests them.  They are looking for accounts of their interest from the views of others.  They are allowing their perception to be altered by the ideas of those that have perceived their interests before they do.  While on the other end of the spectrum, the ambition to research what they have no interest in is quite smaller.  Leaving opinions about how they perceive something they are disinterested in up to the nature of the disinterest.  They way they view that world is not fed by experts; it is fed simply by how their conscious wants to view it.  If for no other reason this is because they have no other information to go on.  I find this relevant in my life in areas like politics.  I am not interested in politics, and as a result the reality of politics is rather boring and unexciting.  I had no interest in listening to lengthy debates and I don’t entirely follow political talk on the radio.  Others have differing opinions, but for me the reality of this nature will remain constant, at least for the time being.  And as I see it, these interests come from the experiences we have with them, and our reactions to them.  These experiences are the product of a childhood, which is the product of the upbringing each person has.  Now I grant that this is not all encompassing, but I do believe that this is true for the most part.	In my Initial Paper I discussed some things of this nature: religion and love.  I now want to take a minute to add to my views before I conclude this introspective search of how I view the world.  On the topic of religion I said true religious people cannot be idealists because to believe in God would be to believe in something that existed before their conscious.  Now I would like to add that true religious people are constructionists.  They take what they see and what they cannot explain and they call it God, or God’s actions.  From this end they are being materialists, however, as I mentioned before, they also see what they want to see.  Religious people that I have come to know also spend a lot of time looking for proof of the existence of God.  By that very statement they are not looking for proof that he doesn’t exist and therefore are more willing to see a world with Gods presence running through it.  This is quite idealist.  The one thing I still cannot explain is why this is the case, because I think that to accept this would be to accept God as merely a representation of an unexplainable class of circumstances.  However, I still am debating with myself the existence of God and yet I still feel what I have said to be true.  This is clearly a contradiction, but I cannot to make sense of it any more then this.	On the topic of love I have found my view shifting away from intuition.  This is probably not the most romantic shift in the world, but now think, especially after a discussion of the vignettes, that love is just an “evolved” form of what started as mating urges.  We have merely evolved out understanding of it.  We love those that make us feel safe, that help us when we need it, and are there for anything requested of them.  This seems an awful lot like the reason why monogamous species pair with their mates.  They need a mate they can depend on to help them and protect what is precious to them.  Yes, I still believe that physical urges to not completely account for everything that happens with love.  There are times that survival instinct would disagree final choice in mate (this seems to happen a lot in Hollywood films where the girl ends up with the tiny poor man instead of the strong rich man) but I stand by my view that this is still largely due to chemical reactions in our brain.  Trial and error, and instinct play large role at the root of everything romantic.To conclude with this final inspection of my views of perception and its relation to science and reality, I can’t help but wonder if my final views would have been different under different circumstances.  I alluded to this at the beginning of my Initial Paper, but there were something misgivings I had with my own analysis because deep down I felt they were not my own.  At least to a certain degree there was some negative influence on how I developed throughout the course.  It is my belief that this course was designed to present the students with alternate viewpoint and allow them to decide where they stood and then decide if they should amend it or not.  The course did its job, but not in the way I believe it was intended.    I personally felt that my own opinions were subtly influenced on the first day of class when we were told three things.  The first being that Professor Pachella’s views were of a more radical nature.  The second statement being that we would be hearing more dramatic points of view.  And finally, that we, as college students, have a tendency to agree with a constructionist viewpoint.  The cumulative effect for me was my development turned into a semester long process of choosing sides.  While Professor Pachella never explicitly said what he believed, at least for the majority of the semester, I felt that I was spending the rest of the semester trying to identify which viewpoints were the so-called “radical” viewpoints.  The conclusion I drew was that idealism and intuitionism were those radical viewpoints and that to agree or disagree with those viewpoints was to confirm or deny Professor Pachella’s views for myself.Regardless of what his actual views were, the nature of the introduction to the course left me wondering, in hindsight, what differences it would have made had I been left to figure out my opinions without any help.  I wonder if I would have been keener to the idea of being a constructionist if I had not been told that college students tend in that direction. I wonder if I would have had different feelings towards the extremes of each dimension.  Presently I feel that there is a negative connotation towards positive science and materialism because they seem to be the farther from what Professor Pachella’s views when compared to the other end of the spectrum.  This is not to say that I fall in step with a professor, but rather to say that those ends of the spectrum have the connotation of disagreement, while the other end – intuition and idealism – have the connotation of agreement.  My mind keeps wandering back to Percy’s “The Loss of the Creature”, where he explains his argument concerning information provided by experts.  Namely I relate this to where he says the impact made by the expert is unnecessary because it based on facts that other may not be interested in.  Yet, after those opinions are expressed, the layman is giving up their sovereignty of the situation by submitting to the expert’s opinion.  As I detailed in my paper, I felt Percy’s theory had much to be developed, I feel he was correct in this scenario.  As I conclude this course I wonder to what degree are the changes I have made in thinking my own, and to what degree I have unwittingly given up sovereignty to the expert.A major reason that I feel this way is that I like to think of myself as being unique, and so when someone tells me that I will feel something, I look for evidence that the opposite is true.  If someone tells me something is radical I look for reasons to believe otherwise and reasons to believe the opposing side to be more radical, or at the very least less favorable.  Just like what was described in “See What You Want to See”, I feel as though I spent a fair amount of time looking for reasons to justify everything I have just described.Yet through it all I appreciate the level of skepticism I have obtained from this course.  Regardless of what might have been, I find myself looking at my world through different eyes.  I enjoy bewildering my friends with theories and considerations I had not thought of before.  Whether it be love, religion, or an autobiography, I find myself not looking at any of it the same.  However, I think the only reason I can look at the world the way I do is because I look at it with a good combination of idealism, materialism, intuition, positive science, and constructionism as they each play a role, not totally dependent on each other, in my life.