My girlfriend and I have been dating for a while now and one of the biggest difficulties we have had has stemmed from the difference in our majors.  My major is within the school of LSA and hers is within the college of engineering.  The issue that arises from this is a product of class placement.  All of my classes are on central campus while hers are almost entirely on north.  This has not been much of an issue except that this semester is the first time we are living on different campuses since our relationship began.The real problem this poses becomes an issue during late night study sessions where the journey one of us must take to get home is impossible, impractical, or just dangerous.  Therefore we had to sit down and plan ahead.  The goal of our negotiation was to determine how often we would have such a sleep over, and where it would be.  That way it would be easy to plan accordingly and bring study materials wherever they need to go with out the worry of time.
Luckily for us we have a lot of negotiating advantages.  We have already spent a long time establishing a rapport, liking and trust.  This made it a lot easier to transparently discuss feelings on an issue.  However, with this added experience come disadvantages as well.  Probably the most difficult one for me was separating the problem form the person.  Despite my logical personality it becomes difficult to think absolutely rationally about things when you are in a relationship with someone.   With so much time together there are many emotions and negative negotiation attempts that hinder my ability to separate her and the problem.	The other thing I had to be wary of was not crossing the line one where suggestion turns into pushing.  My girlfriend can get a emotional if a discussion starts to heat up, so keeping my phrasings in check would be key in making sure she feels that her decisions are her own.  After all, the relationship is far more important then the stakes.  Both of us knew that, but being wary of this potential problem is never a bad idea.	My next step in preparation was to examine our time together to assess the overlaps and potential conflict areas based on our personal bargaining styles.  I know myself to be a logical and practical negotiator.  I am often conciliatory, however in situations such as these where I have to make certain that I am maintaining my needs, I have a tendency of rigidity around certain subjects of which I am very adamant.  That being said I also think I am almost always open to hearing and considering suggestions.  This openness is one thing that we have in common.  I also know her to be rather emotional and to exhibit passive-aggressive behavior, as she gets more frustrated.  While she is usually practical, her emotions severely lessen her judgment.  I also know her to work very hard to alleviate the most immediate stressor, which posses issues for certain long term solutions.  Recognizing these differences I knew that my goal was to define a fair standard and set realistic goals.  The hope here was to keep what needed to be known out in the open and leave more room for us to discuss what issues were most important to us.  This, I anticipated being a good counter measure to both my rigidity and her potential emotional flux as well as preventing the negotiation from “turning into a contest of will” (Getting to Yes, 23).	Next, I had to gather information on her target position goals.  A lot my ideas about her potential positions and based in retrospective analysis of her personality.  I determined that it would likely be her goal to spend as much time together as possible, on as many nights as possible.  She is quite social and does not do well with much time alone.  I, however, have quite introverted tendencies and would like fewer nights together, as I tend to get easily agitated with people if I spend too much consecutive time with them.  I speculated the other things important to her to be the following.  Convenience would be important because she has to work on north campus several mornings a week.  Being at her place would be important because she has told me that she wished the time we spent together was more evenly spaced between the campuses.  Lastly I figured having some “me time” would be important to her, however, not much would be necessary.  The big contrast here was that “me time” was my most important issue.  I felt it had benefits for both of us.   I am comfortable when I am alone, I also was looking for convenience, because I had early morning class on certain days, and I often stayed up much later then her working on homework, so getting up in the morning on north would be difficult.  On the lower end of important topics for me was spending time together and location.  I placed spending time together so low because I was using her definition “time together”.  In other words, time spent in band, and mid-day studying did not really count for her as “together time”.  Since those moments did for me, I felt we were spending more time together then she did and therefore spending additional time was not as important.	After this analysis the only left to consider was that she would be leaving at the end of the semester for an out-of-state internship.  The major impact of this would be that time would seem fleeting, and her leaving would be hanging over our heads for the entire semester.  Because of that, spending as much time as possible together would hold even more importance for her.  For me, this meant settling for a BATNA was not an option, an agreement had to be made.
	The most important part of the actual negotiation was meeting face-to-face.  Luckily this was easy enough because we play in several bands together, and as a couple, already spend a good deal of time together. I started out the negotiation with the intention not to anchor.  While anchoring is normally a good strategy, I wanted to take an approach where we looked at each position and tried to narrow down the days rather then haggle back and forth.  I also knew that my anchor, 1 night, would be very low and she would not approve at all.  In fact my saying that I only wanted one night together might spark additional concern in that I was avoiding her or other things of that nature that I did not want to risk.	The bulk of the negotiation consisted of us voicing our concerns, the most important of which were defining the impossible or undesirable days.  Because I had early class and she had work, we ruled out having Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays on north, and Sundays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays on Central.  Also due to early mornings on Saturdays because of band obligation we decided that Fridays would best be spent on central campus.  The other concern was transportation.  She had a car and I did not, so campus travel was much easier for her as I had to take a bus, which are much less convenient.	Noting this I took an opportunity to appeal to her focus of interests by opening the days to have sleepovers generously and offered to stay at her place Monday nights with no expectation of reciprocity as a show of good faith.  From there we began trading off items via inventing options, which took the form of offering different day combinations and transportation options.  As we progressed it became apparent to me that her biggest concern was really just spending time together and the where was much less of a concern.  I used this to my advantage by playing up the morning inconvenience in order to prevent my obligation to north campus being any more then one night.  I traded off on this issue of lower priority in exchange for some lenience in her higher priority issues.  We decided that every day would be a potential day for nighttime spent together.  However, in an effort to prevent this from becoming overwhelming for me I pushed our negotiation towards establishing a concrete schedule.	In the end we decided on one day on north, one on central, with three days being impossible.  This left for a possible four days a week to spend time together, and three days a week for ensure that I had the time I needed to be alone.
Coming out of the negotiation, it was obvious that having the additional experience with each other was as big of a benefit as I had hoped it would be.  It was easy to be open and upfront about concerns.  I also felt that during the rare occasion that we had difficulty expressing ourselves, we knew each other well enough to make sense of any confusion that occurred.	One thing that we were very good at was inventing options for mutual gain. I credit this almost entirely to the fact that we know each other so well.  We were able to think of compromises that we knew would speak to the important interests that were being addressed, without having to guess around in the dark if that situation where our views of each other’s interests were muddled and nebulous.	The biggest advantage that we were able to embrace was that so many of Cialdini’s influence strategies for reciprocity were prevalent even before negotiation began.  We went in knowing and wanting to be reciprocal, and we started out with a nice directional goal because of the consistency of our past (where we tended to sleep in years prior).  I also believe that the scarcity of the time we had left made her more willing to agree with what I wanted more easily.  Since my time was also quite scare on a day-to-day basis I could frame the time I had to give as precious.  Therefore, all time I could spare was all that much more special because I could easily use it to show my effort to make her happy.	While there were no huge surprises, there was still some aspects that I wish had gone differently.  For instance there were times during which I held back my full emotion on a topic as a means to preserve the relationship and ended up not getting what I truly needed.  The best example was that the end result left a lot of room for many additional nights spent together.  While I don’t have any strong feelings against this, I know that there is potential for those days to begin to feel routine, and then when I need a night alone it will be that much harder to get it.
All of the above leads to my two big takeaways.  Both of them are just comments on what I felt I could have done better during the negotiation.  The first is that I wish I had made my “hypothetical fears” more visible to her.  Those fears being my assumption that non-routine sleep over days would slowly become routine, and then impede my alone time.The second item that I felt I should work on would be my level of empathy and understanding could have been better.  The major point of the negotiation was rooted in the amount of time we spent together, and since we had differing views on what qualified as “together time”, a riff developed.  The negotiation would have gone even smoother if I had considered earlier on that just because I knew why we had slept at my place more didn’t mean that it felt any different to her.  Or that just because we were together didn’t mean that it felt like we were truly hanging out.The big take away from this negotiation boils down to one statement to consider.  When complying with certain details of a negotiation are at your expense, it is easy to overlook crucial insights that make a big difference for those you are negotiating with.  Obviously this is why planning ahead is important.  However, I learned that some times that is not enough and the best way to counter act this is to make sure you understand their answer to the why question as well as they	 do.