All original hypotheses were devised to extrapolate on the implications of the Stroop effect.  More specifically, they were thought up to test the difference of the Stroop effect between English and Spanish.  The findings of the study suggest that these hypotheses do in fact have a good deal of merit in their accuracy.  In summary, this experiment was conducted in order to determine if the language of color names had an effect on the score of a Stroop test, and if it was affected by the fluency of the subject taking the test.  This question was tested by testing of the three hypotheses: the Stroop effect will be stronger in English than in Spanish, this difference will be smaller for students who are more fluent in Spanish compared to less fluent in Spanish, and that greater fluency in a given language will positively correlate with size of Stroop effect in that language.  And these hypotheses were tested via a Qualtircs application that provided Stroop score for both English and Spanish colors.  The results were overwhelming in that all data returned significant p-values, which allowed for the assumption that the hypotheses are correct.	A few key aspects of the study nicely support the assumption that the hypotheses are correct.  For one, the sample size was quite large.  A sample size of 30 is generally the minimum sample size to allow for normal assumptions when doing statistical tests, and this study had nearly 8 times that amount.  That alone greatly increases the probability having both favorable and reliable statistical results.  Also the p-values found were much more reliable and the assumptions made from them are much more likely to be accurate as a result, ensuring good statistical validity.  Another aspect is that the study has high construct validity.  The variable in question was a Stroop score, and the Stroop test and a control test were administered and timed by a computer.  Therefore, it is safe to assume the resulting numbers and differences between groups did test for the variable in question*.	However, for all the things the study did well there were some shortcomings to match.  First and foremost of these being the questionability of the operationalized definition of the variables.  The survey tests for fluency, which means the survey is checking for a completeness of command of a language.  The Stroop test does not test for fluency in a language, but rather it tests how well the participant knows 5 common colors.  Therefore someone completely fluent could preform worse then someone significantly less fluent if the colors are more salient for the less fluent person.  A future study might add in a page of English and Spanish colors written solely in black, then use the statistic—(Spanish score - English score)/English score—to conduct another correlation test to see if fluency in colors is closely correlated to general fluency.Another very important failing of the study was that it was demographically unbalanced.  Of the females to males was nearly 3:1.  To remove the possibility of female responses skewing the results, or more simply, to show that each gender interprets the Stroop test the same, further analysis must be done.  Since there were more then 30 males and females tested, normality can be assumed, and therefore an ANOVA test would settle this matter quickly.  If it turns out that there is a difference it could very well lead to future studies about the differences in language processing between genders.	On a similar note, the sample population was predominantly Caucasian—nearly 70%.  Generalizing to all difference races, nationalities and languages backgrounds becomes very difficult with such a narrow racial range.  In addition the population was mostly people of age 20, and over 90% of the participants fell in the range of 19-22.  This makes for a difficult generalization to the public, but more importantly it helps support the notion of a flawed operationalized definition of fluency since it overlooks young children just starting to learn a language.  One of the first vocabulary sets introduced to fledglings of a language is “colors”.  Testing this younger population is important in seeing if fluency is the best predictor versus color fluency.	There were also some issues with the set up of the study.  First off, it was conducted were all participants were in a room with several others.  Being in the presence of others very likely had an effect on the resulting scores, improving them the more second nature the task was and the opposite the less so it is (CITE THIS).  In addition seeing a person move faster through the study then they are could raise frustration levels or a negative form of performance anxiety, slowing down the scores because of the distraction.  A simple correction to this would be redoing the study and isolating the participants.	Finally, there is issue with the way the experiment was presented.  Each participant knew about the Stroop test, and the goals of a study.  With the knowledge that the test was a Stroop test, the results are quite confounded.  A number of unforeseen consequences could have ensued as a result like a slowing of the overall time of completion—the English part because they might now want to have a large Stroop effect on their score, and the Spanish part because of added anxiety about what was being tested. They could have also tried to alter the results by changing responses on the survey, like fluency levels, or intentionally distort their completion times.	Under the assumption that these hypotheses are in fact all correct, future studies might look at methods of teaching new languages. More specifically they might chose to avoid a more aesthetic and exciting approach for even if they are being taught to elementary school students to see if it results in better learning.  This would be consistent with the Stroop study because various fonts and colors would distract from the actual words.  Another study could look at advertising for stores with names or words in different languages.  Looking at whether simpler is better for a budding company with an unrecognizable name to display their title without fancy colors and fonts.