Advertising Language Choice Considerations for Bilinguals
In multilingual countries around the world, the choice of language is central to mass media and the advertising industry. For an advertising agency that could be foreign or local, considerations of language use are complex and include the targeted audience and their perceptions, the product itself, and the effectiveness of the advertisement in terms of communicative ability and positive results. In particular, studies have shown that language choice of an advertisement may be influenced by the emotions and experiences a particular language evokes in a consumer. Ultimately, those feelings may persuade people to consume a particular product. When targeting a bilingual population, advertisers can choose single language use, bilingual use, or even a mixture for their ads. Current research, however, suggests that when deciding on language used in advertisements for bilinguals, advertisers should consider the native language, the consumption context of the advertised offering, and the emotional implications that are associated with each language. This paper explores language choice strategies that companies employ when targeting bilingual and multilingual populations and how those choices influence the population.
  Advertising in multilingual countries is becoming increasingly strategic and the choice of language can have effects on the consumer’s perception of the product being advertised.  In order to study the consequences of language choice in ads for bilinguals, researchers in urban India compared the language choice in ads for multinational corporations (MNC’s) versus local companies. The researchers conducted two studies to zero in on the differences between MNC and local company advertisements and to test for the effect of single versus mixed language advertisements on consumers (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 699).
  In urban India, Hindi and English are the official national link languages. In general, Hindi is informal and spoken more with family and friends whereas English is formal and spoken more at school or businesses (Bhatia & Ritchie 2006: 797). A questionnaire distributed to 46 undergraduates from the University of Delhi examined their attitudes towards language in terms of potential favorability and language association. In their pilot test to study language association, the results showed that subjects reported favorable assessments towards both languages. Furthermore, English was associated with progressivism, modernism, and sophistication while Hindi was associated with a sense of belongingness, closeness, and family (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 695-696). With the questionnaires completed, the researchers concluded that the two languages, English and Hindi, are both viewed favorably and essentially equally so the researchers could continue their research with further studies.
  The researchers based their framework on the "The Markedness Model," whereby a certain language is "unmarked" if it is expected in an advertisement or "marked" if it is unexpected. In other words, if an ad has the expected language, the consumer focuses on the message, but if the language of the ad is unexpected, the consumer focuses on the choice of language in addition to its triggered associations (Myers Scotton 2000: 135). Taking this a step further, the researchers concentrated on the associations of English with the upper class, sophistication, exclusivity and Hindi with family, closeness, and belongingness. In terms of products, the researchers predicted that English would be associated with luxuries and Hindi with necessities (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 697).  In the first part of the study, the researchers used single language ads to compare language choice for local companies vs. MNC’s. They found language choice mattered more to MNC’s (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 700). They then hypothesized that for a MNC, Hindi would elicit more favorable evaluations for necessities whereas for a luxury item, Hindi would elicit less favorable reactions than English or a mixed language slogan.  Thus, they expected slogans to be more effective if associations matched the product category (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 698).
  After scanning different products, the ones chosen were chocolate for a luxury item and detergent for a necessity. In the next part of the study, students were given a print advertisement slogan either in English for chocolate, Hindi for chocolate, English for detergent, or Hindi for detergent. They were asked to evaluate the advertisements on two 7-point scales (good/bad and like/dislike). The results illustrated that when the product was chocolate, subjects preferred the English slogan compared to the Hindi slogan. However, when the product was the detergent, the Hindi slogan was viewed more favorably ((Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 700). In the second study, the participants were asked to list all of their thoughts and feelings that came to mind when they were simply exposed to a print advertisement. Study 2 yielded very similar results as study 1 whereby English signaled sophistication and modernism and Hindi yielded thoughts of belongingness and family (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 701). 
This research in urban India highlights the fact that companies can produce a desired effect by choosing a language that is marked or produces emotional output on the consumer end. The MNC’s have the upper hand in terms of advertising because they can choose which language they want to use to target bilinguals and position their products accordingly, whereas language choice did not seem to matter for local companies. In the future, it is important for experimenters to test other types of products where the line between luxuries vs. necessities is more distinct. There are many confounding variables that were not addressed here such as if the consumer preferred one product to another or if the slogan for one item was deemed more creative than the other item. In addition, the study used students who were well-educated. Perhaps the results would be different if bilinguals were not so proficient in both languages.  Nevertheless, it is a good base study for demonstrating how the choice of language in an advertisement can be important in eliciting personal and specific emotions, which in turn, can affect one’s perception of a product.
In another more recent study by two researchers in the US, the authors ask not only whether the choice of language influences the type of thoughts a bilingual has in response to an advertisement, but also if those associated thoughts facilitate persuasion. In the United States alone, there are 50 million people who speak a language other than English at home (Noriega and Blair 2008: 69).  According to the authors, past research on language choice and advertising effectiveness for bilinguals has either focused on identity, ease of processing, or how the language used in an ad elicits personal and cultural characteristics (Noriega and Blair 2008: 69-70). In this study, the authors form three hypotheses. First, they surmise that native language ads cue more thoughts about FFHH (Family, Friends, Home, and Homeland) than second-language advertisements. Secondly, they hypothesize that this phenomenon is actually moderated by contexts and those contexts are stronger for ads in the native tongue. Lastly, in their third hypothesis, they suspect that a rise in FFHH thoughts translates to positive thoughts towards ads in addition to the brand and therefore, higher purchase intentions (Noriega and Blair 2008: 71-72).
  The premise of the first hypothesis ties into the idea that language and experiences have the capacity to cue one another. Contexts such as people, places, things, and symbols cue the language people use to communicate and the researchers argue the opposite is also true – that is, language cues contexts as well.  In the first part of this study, 82 bilinguals (French, Russian, Spanish, Farsi, Italian, Dutch, Korean, and more) whose second language is English were asked to either translate or not translate a tire cleaning product advertisement and a fictitious restaurant ad written in English (Noriega and Blair 2008: 72).  With the restaurant ad, respondents also had to write down their thoughts as they looked at the ad and these were then coded according to FFHH. Results showed that thoughts did not differ between translation and non-translation, but there was a statistically significant difference in translated thoughts relating to FFHH (Noriega and Blair 2008: 74). Furthermore, translation had a significant effect on the personal relevance of thoughts, but none of the other dimensions. The first hypothesis, then, that the native language (translated condition of ad) cues more FFHH-related thoughts was confirmed.  Of interest is the lack of association in the translated condition with target or positive thoughts. These results indicate that even though bilinguals may have specific thoughts in response to an ad, they may not have a positive attitude toward the ad, the brand, or any purchase intentions (Noriega and Blair 2008: 74-75). In other words, the ad itself may or may not be effective.
  In part two of this study, bilinguals who were Spanish language natives but were proficient enough in English to read print media were picked to participate in a comparison of ads that were already printed in both Spanish and English (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The first ad was a practice ad for an international bank and the second ad was for a fictitious restaurant. The fictitious restaurant ad was either in Spanish or English and there was one of each for dinner and lunch. By comparing lunch and dinner, the researchers were able to determine that dinner would be a stronger cue for a family consumption context (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The design of the study "was a 2 (language: Spanish vs. English) x 2 (consumption context: native language vs. 2nd language) between-subjects design" (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The participants were then randomly assigned to view the practice ad as well as a focal ad for dinner in either Spanish or English. For the fictitious restaurant dinner ad, the participants again had to write down all their thoughts as they perused the ad. As in the first study, thoughts relating to FFHH were measured and thoughts were also coded as per the scheme in the first study. In addition, the participants filled out a questionnaire measuring their reactions to the ad in terms of attitudes toward the ad itself, the brand, the product, and purchase intention (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75-76). Different scale models were then utilized to assess attitudes.
  Analysis of this study reveals contextual variables and native language are intimately connected and that consumption context should be another consideration when choosing a language for an ad. Results of this study might have been different or more dramatic if a more direct product associated with thoughts of home and family (as opposed to a restaurant) was used. Perhaps a study comparing products with native language contexts should be compared to products with second language contexts (for example, products relating to school or business) in the future.  Another problem with this study was the simplicity of the slogan itself – for the restaurant, the only visual cues were a fork and knife and this seems intentional so that the subjects would focus on the language and words. Perhaps a number of slogans with different visual cues could have been compared as well. Although this was a very complex study with multiple hypotheses, it does reveal that language choice for bilinguals is important and can be influenced by consumption context.   
  Another aspect of advertising consideration is the emotional implication of a consumer’s native language versus his/her second language. Companies are concerned with generating emotions with their slogans because it tends to be beneficial to the brand in terms of garnering attention and publicity (Puntoni 2008: 1012). Researchers in the Netherlands conducted five studies to investigate the perceived emotional outputs of marketing slogans in consumer’s first language (L1-French or Dutch) versus their second language (L2-English). (Puntoni 2008: 1012-1025).  Their hypothesis emerges from the idea of episodic trace memories and that every experience is stored in the mind as a part of the episodic trace and is clued by a textual element (Puntoni 2008: 1014). Hence, when text from a print advertisement is viewed, it may activate a specific experience and the accompanying emotions but only in same language contexts.
  For example, participants were asked to translate a given word into their native language and three words that came to their mind when writing down the word. The results concluded that participants who wrote down the desired word in their native language demonstrated much stronger emotional ties than those who wrote the word down in their L2 (Puntoni 2008: 1018). This is an interesting find but difficult to be applicable for larger companies. First, the study fails to identity what adjectives are deemed more "emotional" than others. Also, one wonders if certain languages are just more "emotional" in nature than others. Furthermore, consumers have such varied memories and emotional cues that it is difficult for companies to judge what type of slogans elicit the most emotional thoughts. However, a conclusion from all of the studies is that larger companies should consider communicating with their potential buyers in the native language of the country in the hope of exerting more emotional messages.
The topic of language choice for the purpose of advertising to bilinguals has become much more relevant as to how our global community interacts more than ever before. Much of the past research on language choice and advertising effectiveness has either focused on identity, ease of processing, or personal connections (Noriega 2008: 69-70). Often times, it was just assumed that advertising should be in the native tongue for better comprehension and acculturation.  For MNC’s, though, it appears that the consumptive product is of importance and perhaps, the second language or even a mixed language advertisement would be a better bet. Even McDonald’s recently noted that it was best to target the bilingual population with ads in both languages and this may become a new trend (Zampaulo 2011). Thus, the choice of language for advertisements is more intricate and advertisers need to consider other aspects such as consumption context and emotional implications.  More research needs to be conducted to see if there are any additional considerations.Throughout the Imperial, Soviet and post­Soviet periods in Russia’s turbulent history, a variable version of sport has always carried through in unique forms, correlated to historical, political, and social statuses of the economy. Over the course of the last 50 years, Russian sport has become a vector of power both at home and internationally in Olympic games and sport in general. However, the decades leading up to the victories were unstable due to the ever changing government control and the very nature of sport. Often, Russian spectator sports, or team sports, have been closely associated with
group identities reflecting the nature of Russian control. The Imperial, Soviet and post­Soviet periods began with highly localized identities and as Russia expanded and became dominant internationally following WWII, spectator sports induced strong national patriotism.
The origin of the term sport mirrors the way group identities of team sport have shifted over time. As history of usage determines the order of definitions in dictionaries it’s important to note that the modern sense of sport as a physical activity characterized by skill, rules and competition wasn’t defined until the 19th century (M. Makin, Introduction to Russian Sport, February 3, 2014). Prior to that
usage, sport was merely a pleasurable, entertaining activity usually only put into practice by nobility. After this definition, sport emerged to cover specific exertions like hunting and fishing to reflect both the daily physical activities of the peasants and elite (M. Makin, Introduction to Russian Sport, February
3, 2014). In its early use the sense of "sport" symbolized camaraderie based on socioeconomic class as the recreations completed were either based on entertainment or necessity, as was hunting for
sustenance for the poorer classes. The definition entries for the term "sport" can be thousands of words long and only with the formation of industrial society do we see a predominant modern usage.
Prior to any sense of codification, we see evidence that sport correlates to socioeconomic status in famous 19th century works of literature. For example, in the famous novel Anna Karenina penned
by Leo Tolstoy in 1877, there are three episodes detailing sporting events. For example, in one incident, Vronsky, Anna’s secret love affair, rides a horse in the eye of the entire upper class, only to tug the reins too firmly, failing himself, his horse, and society (Swartz, 1997). In an another event, an educated Russian scholar, Levin, participates in a game of lawn tennis at Vronsky’s estate. Evidently, Tolstoy portrays these team participant sports as belonging solely to the elite (Swartz, 1997). In the 19th century, it is only the nobility who could afford such land, infrastructure, and attire. The peasants not only lacked the resources like horses and land to compete, but they did not have time for leisure activity, as surviving the dearth of food supply was a full time job. Although Vronsky, Levin and others compete for honor and glory, ultimately they identify with one another as aristocrats.
On the contrary, Ivan Turgenev notes local "sport" for those who do not own land in the
Russian countryside in his book, A Sportsman's Sketches. One section entitled "Raspberry Spring" accounts a serf hunting for sustenance with beads of sweat dripping under the intolerable sun (Turgenev, 1897). While he so longs for a rest beneath the shade of a tree, he fights the urge knowing only too well he could die without hunting (Turgenev, 1897). Occasionally there lie interactions between the serfs, demonstrating mutual understanding of a common goal (Turgenev, 1897). The local peasants do not hunt and fish for entertainment though contrasting that of the nobility described in Tolstoy’s stories. At the culmination of the 19th century, strong local identities based on social status and class percolated through the diverse notions of Russian sport.
The upper classes grew desire for more forms of social entertainment and adopted hunting and fishing. This enabled contact between peasants and richer families hinting at a potential merger of identities over these sports (M. Makin, Sport Before Sport, February 11, 2014). However, some of these non codified sports began to lose distinction between classes as the government modified regulations over land use to facilitate economic development. For example, gambling became normalized for all classes to participate, and guns became affordable, as detailed by McReynolds in her chapter entitled Sporting Life as Modern Life (McReynolds, 2003). Horse racing, a sport once represented by the elite, suddenly became available to the public sphere when the first hippodrome was built for all spectators to observe and participate (McReynolds, 2003). The possibility of democratization and classless competitions quickly led to the emergence of modern sports as Russia began to learn from outside countries. The codification process was adopted from other countries and entered Russian society in the middle of the 19th century, post industrialization. The British people made a stamp on almost every corner of the earth with aspects of their culture, and Russia was no exception. There existed a large population of British subjects in St. Petersburg serving as merchants, armed forces personnel, and professionals which prompted western engagement in addition to new foreign policy mergers (Cross, 2003 & Keys, 2003). According to Cross, shooting and fishing were less interesting to the British and instead their efforts were focused on club sports, where rules, competitions and specific settings were ordered (Cross, 2003). Team sports like rowing, tennis, soccer or football, ice hockey, curling, and cricket were adopted by Russians and were in fact attached to clubs, leagues and cup competitions (Cross, 2003). The first Association Football national association in Russia was founded in 1912 with many other sports following its lead (Windhausen, 1993).
Industrialization and the strong British influence began to heavily shape Russian sports and the identity associated with these new leagues. For example, a Russian arts ambassador and multi­millionaire Savva Morozov actually sponsored a sports team to represent his factory (M. Makin, Sport Before Sport, February 11, 2014). The communities related to location and employment shaped new civic identities no longer completely divided by social or economic class. Now the competitions centered around city rivalries and some middle class players became local celebrities of sorts.
However this euphoric intra country competition was disrupted as the Bolshevik Revolution attempted to sever the relationships established between Russian and western organizations (Keys, 2003, p. 417). At this point in Russia’s history during the 1920s, Soviet authorities attempted to
disband competitive leagues and instead sought to promote a "physical culture" where all members of society would be prepared to become better workers as well as better fighters for military purposes (M. Makin, Soviet Domination, March 11, 2014). For example, corrective exercises, pageants and labour gymnastics were employed to "inculcate habits of collectivism, good hygiene and discipline" as mentioned by Keys in her piece Soviet Sport and Transnational Mass Culture in the 1930s (Keys,
2003, p. 417). She maintained that Stalin promoted a collectivist culture and individual athletes were not encouraged (Keys, 2003). There were even "Physical Culture Day Parades" held annually in Red Square (Edelman, 1993, p. 11). Russia was not competing internationally at this point, but there was an emergent feeling of patriotism and pride that would eventually lead to a strong sense of national identity.
Finally over the course of the 1930s, due to pressure from other countries and lack of achievement, the regime devoted more attention to sport but it wasn’t until the Cold War that sport training became an absolute priority (Keys, 2003). World War II caused extensive devastation and horror as 20 million people were estimated to have died and over 70,000 villages were destroyed (Riordan, 1977). Though for some, the prewar motto of "physical culture" for all citizens appeared to have paid off as activities such as skiing, shooting and wrestling proved to be useful for soldiers fighting in battle (Riordan, 1977 & M. Makin, Soviet Domination, March 11, 2014). Thus, the war ended up conveying a sense of satisfaction with regard to the energy invested in sport and physical exertion and modern spectator sports remerged with national pride (Riordan, 1977).
After World War II, Russia joined the global community by participating in many international events, most notably in the Olympic games. Since Russia was so intent on revealing the superiority of Communism to the world, sports became a way to showcase Russian supremacy. The Russians invested in modern sports facilities, large arenas, intensive training at early ages, and international competitions to eventually become known as a "Soviet sports machine" (Edelman, 1993, preface vii). The Russians performed well in the Olympics held after the war, but in what was supposed to be the pinnacle of glory for them, the 1980 Moscow Olympics, sports took a back seat as multiple nations banned the Olympics when Russia invaded Afghanistan (Edelman, 1993, p. 152). Although Russia tried to showcase their athletic dominance and large number of Soviet spectators attended the events, the so­called success of the games was self­propelled while other nations held a dim view of Russia’s political maneuvers.
The 1980’s and 1990’s were filled with more political downfall such as the dissolution of the Soviet Union and sports culture in Russia was affected. For example, in revenge for the boycott of the 1980 Olympics, Russia did not participate in the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles (M. Makin,
Introduction to Russian Sport, February 3, 2014). Many Russian athletes were negatively impacted
by this action, especially soccer players because the boycott of the LA Olympics caused FIFA to decide not to pick Russia as the site of the 1990 World Cup (Edelman, 1993, p. 154). Also, as many former Soviet republics declared independence with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, many athletes changed allegiance and played for their republics and not for Russia (M. Makin, Fall and Rise, March 18, 2014). Yet, towards the end of the century, Russia poured monetary resources and recruited coaches and athletes to rebuild it’s sports machine and reestablish a collectivist identity.
The late 20th and 21st century may be aptly characterized as major sports domination for Russia. Russia has become a global player in the modern sports marketplace, from hosting Olympic games, to famous tennis players like Maria Sharapova, to winning Ice Hockey teams, and they aren’t slowing down. In the most recent Winter Sochi Olympic Games Russia took home the most combined amount of medals. President Putin was a strong presence at the games to convey Russia’s athletic prowess and help boost Russia’s image to the world. The Russian government is likely going to host the 21st FIFA World Cup in 2018, once again displaying its willingness and power to shell out an extraordinary amount of money on venues, transportation systems, tourism and its beloved players ("Russia united for," 2012).
However, throughout all of Russia’s history there has never been a discrete focus on the individual athlete as the collective has always been tied to the Russian political and social system. For example, at the most recent Sochi games, the successful Russian male ice skater, Evgeni Plushenko,
was criticized by Russian authorities because he withdrew from the male skating event with a hip injury, even after he helped Russia win a team gold medal (Sekretarev, 2014). Plushenko did not receive complete support from his country as the Russian government viewed this lack of participation as hurtful as he may have cost Russia another medal (Sekretarev, 2014). In addition, many Russian spectators did not even attend the male ice skating competition because there was no Russian ice skater to represent them. Evidently, with Russia’s intense focus on winning for national pride, individual athletes may feel pressure to hold up the Russian collectivist facade. Identity roles have shifted over the course of Russia’s history, but team sport has usually mirrored Russia’s social and political system which today represents fierce collective nationalism.

A Gnawing Dilemma
"Well what is your best attribute?" she asked. Last year I was interrogated by a barrage of questions such as these during an interview for Tufts University. My interviewer was a child psychologist but you wouldn’t know it. She was rude, cold and rolled her eyes at every word that slowly rolled off my tongue. She continued, "Give me a phrase that describes you." Yes, I thought. I confidently stated, "I have perspective." She stared into my eyes, lifted an eyebrow and moved on. "What? Not even a follow up question to that answer?" Truthfully, I had pondered that question long and hard and that was honestly my best answer. My best attribute revolves around my strong desire to be a good, caring person – I never miss someone’s birthday, an opportunity to say congratulations, to say thank you.  That was what I wanted to convey to this woman. I wanted to look deeply into that soul I knew she had and tell her I that I HAVE perspective.
            As the interview continued, my finger lifted to my crooked jaw unconsciously and I began to gnaw on my half eaten fingers. Suddenly, the interviewer’s interest sparked up. She hit me with a cannon ball of questions and I was unprepared for the responses. "Are you nervous? Why do you bite yourself? Do you hurt yourself in other ways?" She was getting bigger and bigger and I felt as small as ever. This is a joke. Like when a camera zooms in on your stuttering mouth and the world stares at your snag tooth and shivering lip.
            The truth is I used to bite my fingers. No not my nails like normal people, my fingers and knuckles. I had little self-confidence and I got nervous easily. I think it had to do with my way of life in high school. No not my way of life – it was my high school – competitive and stricken with overachievers. I needed to keep up. My stomach would ache for every quiz; my fingers would bleed prior to an examination.  I was so caught up in the fury of high school; my every move was a bad habit. Yes, I had to admit it – I was stressed. I always wanted to be like my siblings – to get a 100 on all my tests and win spelling bees, and Model UN competitions. Somehow, I thought my brother and sister were perfect as they were outstanding students at the top of their class. Of course, no one is perfect, but I tried so hard and I really thought I could emulate the achievements of other people like my siblings and close competitors. Chewing my skin was my vice, my way out of perfection. People would stare at me: teachers, students, parents, you name it. My lab partner in biology (not my favorite subject) took notice of my "eating habits." I later learned he and his friends called me "knuckles" or "knucks" behind my back in light of my zest and taste for my knuckles.
            I’ll never forget my first manicure. It dates back to my Bat Mitzvah in 7th grade – the first year I had really started to chomp off my precious skin. Walking in, I hastily picked the lightest color polish so people wouldn’t actually notice my nails and hands on the big day. Before I was called over to sit down I had to take my Band-Aids off – all eleven of them. I told people, like my parents, I used Band-Aids to deter myself from nibbling at them when I was nervous, but in reality I used them to stop the blood and cover up the "tumor like swells" (as my friends called my fingers). I went through boxes of Band-Aids in a month and luckily, my parents, both physicians, always kept seemingly endless supplies of Band-Aids around the house. Every time I washed my hands, hit a tennis ball, or typed a paper I would have to replace all ten or eleven of the blood stoppers.
            At the salon I hid my dirty bandages in my pocket – there was no way I was walking over to the garbage and having every mother and child in my town watch me discard the casts, unveiling my barbarian habit. Then, the manicurist called me over to sit down. Oh no. I literally forgot to breathe, sat down and looked away. She examined my hands, nails, and cuticles for what felt like hours. Her bowed head lifted. Her chapped lips opened and she said in a broken Korean accent, "How did you manage to burn every single one of your fingers?" followed by a giggle. "Look at this girl," she vociferously screamed to her co-workers. I pretended my lips were sewn shut and managed not to squirm a peep through the whole situation, even keeping my eyes fastened shut. The next worker said in an even harsher accent, "No boy will ever want to hold your hand – you’ll never get a boyfriend!" and they all laughed. Except me, of course.
            While the manicurist worked on my nails, I thought about a book my parents used to read to me as a child. It was called "The Berenstein Bears and the Bad Habit." My parents must have read it to me eighty times. In the story, Sister Bear nibbled on her nails until "she had nibbled them down to nubbins."  In the end, her parents bribed her with pennies to keep for each nail she didn’t nibble and voila, she was cured of her bad habit. Ha! If only it were that simple to stop my chewing (or if only they had offered that solution by a more significant order of magnitude...)
Senior year of high school, I enrolled in AP Psychology solely because my siblings had taken the course and well, I wanted to be just like them. In one particular lesson, we were discussing "fixations" that children become accustomed to as a result of parental abuse or neglect. Ms. Luis asked, "Did any of you not use a bottle or pacifier as an infant"? Instantly, my hand shot up. I was proud of this accomplishment; I was breast-fed and learned how to use a cup before all of my other classmates. However to my dismay, she claimed I must be "orally fixated." Shocked, I replied in a defensive tone, "I am not orally fixated." My friends began to giggle at my assertiveness. Ms. Luis continued, "Do you chew gum often?" "Yes," I groaned. "Do you gnaw at your pens? "Yes." "And finally, do you bite your fingers? "Um, well, yes." I was whispering at this point. I was so embarrassed and now everyone in the class knew I had this "fixation problem."
            I really did try to stop a couple of times. After the Band-Aids failed, I started to wear gloves to school…in June. Clearly, that didn’t work either. Next I tried that "foul tasting nail polish." Again, this only forced me to eat further down on my fingers.
            There was one time when my obsession ceased, and that was during the summer. The moment school ended my fingers would begin to heal. I was away from the competitive school environment – no quizzes, standardized tests, or unfriendly lab partners to worry about.
            The best solution to my problem I discovered, however, was finishing high school. When people stop a bad habit, they usually gain insight into the problem and realize they are happy without having to resort to that need. Basically, I understood that stress, competition, and the desire to be perfect triggered my bad habit and I needed to work on the triggers as well as the self-inflicted finger chewing. I did not just suddenly relax about school altogether, but I finally had the time to realize that I could channel my stress into other aspects of my life – like playing a sport or taking a walk with friends. In high school the pressure was so constant whereby I did not have time to release any harmful energy so I resorted to harming myself in the moment. I am proud to say I have rarely chewed my knuckles since last spring and slowly my finger deformities have started to heal. There is only a faint discoloration on one or two fingers that remind me of my bad habit. And when I have tests or stress in college now, I quickly realize that I have gained "perspective", something I actually had all along…


A Computer Mediated Fight for Language Dominance
When Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in 1980s, he founded it as a social construct, not as a particularly technological creation. He once stated, "I designed it for a social effect — to help people work together — and not as a technical toy. The ultimate goal of the Web is to support and improve our weblike existence in the world" (Cornett 2010). It is designed as a place to reach more information and people and arguably most importantly, a place for continual education accessible by anyone all over the world. However, even though more and more countries are garnering access to computers and the world wide web, English still tends to be the language of the internet, spanning across sixty-eight percent of all web pages (Global Reach as cited in Gandal 2003). A study recorded in the mid 1990s even stated eighty percent of soley international websites stood in English (Cyberspeech as cited in Herring & Danet 2007). Is English use on the internet the start of a universal language? Many fear the notion of linguistic imperialism as English continues to dominate Internet web pages, however, this fear has also fostered some countries to instill laws to persist other native languages besides English.
First, a brief history of the English language and its use on the Internet hints at a slight advantage towards a potential global language. Even the majority of research conducted regarding computer mediated communication (CMC) has been exclusively English based. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD; Default Language, 1999) ninety-one percent of websites who host "secure servers," meaning there exists an exchange of money and credit card information, are portrayed in English (Herring & Danet 2007). E-commerce is a vital source of monetization across the globe and fuels the world’s economy, thus beckoning English as a prestigious language yet again. As a major means of global communication, trade, and commercial use cases, it’s vital to examine how this overbearing use of a dominant language is affecting internet users within countries outside of the United States. Within multilingual communities, are the circumstances in which indigenous languages are maintained in online settings?
Language use in Egypt is called a bilingual or sometimes a trilingual state. In most cases, there are two varieties of Arabic most commonly heard which are Classical Arabic and Egyptian Arabic (Haeri, 1997 as cited in Herring & Danet 2007). Examinations of various types of online and offline communication were conducted to analyze when and how native Egyptian people were utilizing the different dialects. The results concluded that for online communication purposes, Classical Arabic was rarely maintained, if ever, by the 43 participants. Interestingly, English, a completely foreign and not predominant language in Egypt, was used most in the extracts provided. Means such as informal and formal e-mails and chat rooms were cross-examined and English came in first place in terms of the overwhelming majority percentage of use, weighing in at over ninety percent (Herring & Danet  2007). Several variants of Arabic, both classical, roman, and egyptian, all fell much further behind, only tallying a maximum of two percent of language indication. Clearly, in this one example, a language not popularized even in daily outward speaking, assumed an overwhelming dominance in online capacities. 
Participants iterated several reasons for such usage of the English language. The presence of English was viewed most clearly among formal e-mails, implying a professional overtone that the English language may carry (Herring & Danet 2007). When crafting an email or a document filled with specific information, most of the sought research was found online in English and thus it seemed plausible and natural to continue the conversation in that language. Overall, the social, economic, and political construction associated with the English language contributed to it’s online presence in this Egyptian study.
Similarly, Neil Gandal of Tel Aviv University focused his study on native language use on the internet within the bilingual city of Quebec, Canada. The examination observed young and older Quebecois whose native language or L1 is French and L2 is English. According to the study, "native French speakers spent sixty-sixty percent of their online time on English-language websites" (Gandal 2003). Furthermore, younger speakers perused English sites far more often than their elder counterparts, suggesting that in the future, it’s quite possible that bilinguals will become monolingual in terms of online communication (Gandal 2003). He concludes that if the generational effect continues, English will retain it’s initial advantage and web developers will be unlikely to persist multiple languages besides English.
Due to this fear of linguistic congruence and loss of diversity, some countries have fought to maintain language differentiation. For example, in 1994 France issued a law stating that all online advertising must be written in the French language. The French Finance Minister even banned adopted words from English such as "email" and "IM" (Herring & Danet 2007). However, many argue that these efforts go unnecessary. Some modern researchers suggest that early studies may have deduced that English was becoming the world’s language, however the figures and facts are from the latest 2003, deeming them outdated (Zuckerman 2013). Organizations that strive to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, like UNESCO, The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, believe that technology may be enriching the visibility of less widely spoken languages, as some spoken languages are finally getting written down (Zuckerman 2013). Additionally, in places where languages are growing endangered, online communications are building bridges by linking the known speakers together and giving them a broader audience. The internet could be an ideal place to bring together members of indigenous languages like Frisian, which is now spoken by 500,000 people across the world with the help of the internet (Gandal 2003). As more and more people enter the global web movement, it is possible that smaller languages will gain more prominence through non-native English speakers.
Personally, when I studied abroad in Seville, Spain, my native Spanish professors urged me to use the "credible English sources" because anyone could apparently get a piece of written work published online in Spain, but it is a much more tedious process in the United States to receive criticism and ultimate praise. Are all other countries instructing their students to search for English content instead of the country’s native language? Scholar Alvaro Blanco of FUNREDES (Foundation for Networks and Development) conducted much research on online linguistic diversity or lack thereof. As cited in Zuckerman, Blanco believes that major search engines especially include English results as top hits because English sites are the most profitable place to sell advertising (Zuckerman 2013). 
Thus, due to the fluidity and rapidity of technology change, it is impossible to indicate the degree of the effect that English dominance will have on non native English language speakers. Will English begin to replace other languages offline in addition to online? Or will other non popular languages gain traction and decrease the globalization of one language? Many questions will go unanswered for years to come. However, it is clear that the English language is disrupting countries where English never used to be spoken widely and research is just starting to be conducted on computer mediated communication. While the influence of language characterizations does not have a clear positive or negative implication, the connotation associated with English is leading to some degree of online and offline language change. 









Negation and Negative Concord
Introduction 
Every language, regardless of form, lexicon, or grammaticality constraints, has the ability to express negation. However, the manner in which negation manifests itself varies greatly language to language.
An interesting aspect of negation is a study of why some languages treat two or more negative elements as not double instances of negation and instead as one negation, but in other languages the double use creates two negative elements and they therefore cancel each other out (like English). The theory that most languages assume, those that do not mark the amount of negative elements, is known as negative concord. Standard English lacks this phenomenon but some dialects of English do use negative concord, but this exception, and a semantic anomaly is introduced as the double negative occurs. 
Standard English is then called a double negation language and English is actually the exception to the norm. Most languages like Spanish, Italian, Czech, Russian, Greek and many others demonstrate negative concord so in English it is like saying "I haven’t seen none" and with negative concord, this sentences maintains the interpretation that the speaker has not seen any as the two negations do not cancel each other out. In English this sentence would me that in fact, you have seen something because the double negatives cancel each other out.
Although there are many variations in form and position of the double negation, in all of the languages that demonstrate the negative concord phenomena, they all still only yield one negation despite many negative elements. Zeijlstra (2007: 505) points out that according to the study of linguistics the negative concord phenomena generates an odd issue because normally every part of a sentence should grammatically (in terms of form/syntax) and semantically (in terms of meaning) contribute to the overall function, but in this case not every word contributes to the overall message of the sentence. 
Although a semantic contradiction occurs in some languages, the negative quantifier approach and the negative polarity approach will be explored in this paper as guiding reasons for the negative concord phenomena which makes the sentence semantically plausible to create a negation.



Problem 
In order for a transformation to a negation to occur in standard English, do-support is needed, which means that you need the expletive (auxiliary) do inserted because inflection cannot be supported by affix hopping/lowering to the verb. X bar theory cannot generate all sentences and thus is it restricted, so a set of rules are vital to add to that structure and such rules are called "transformational rules." This new model takes the result of X-bar phrase structure rules and changes them into new and different trees. The flow of a sentence outcome starts by being comprised of X-bar rules and then it turns into D-structure due to constraints by theta theory. At this point transformational rules are applied and the result is the S-structure, which can also be constrained by rules like the Extended Projection Principle. For our purposes, negation only contains the word "not" though there are other categories that express negation with determiners like "no" or "none."
Essentially, the negative morpheme "not" blocks the operation of affix lowering and thus do-support is called upon. Affix lowering is blocked by the presence of "not" in English and this is known as stipulation. To reiterate, do support is needed to support the inflection because the affix lowering is blocked by negation. In English one cannot utter, "She not goes to the market" but one can say, "She does not go to the market."
However, in other languages, the expression of negation does not have such exceptions as English. In other languages the negation marker varies in terms of the position in the sentence. Due to this difference, the use of "not" or similar negative terms can change not only change the grammar but even the interpretation and semantic meaning of sentences. 

Dependency 
Negation generally presence of negation in the clause
How negation varies across languages, presence of single element across the clause
Two types
English/French negation between T and V
Negation higher element appearing before T
German 
  Zellotini cited by Zeijstra 


Negative Quantifier Approach
Every language has the ability to take away the truth of the sentence. It is vital to first understand the position of negative markers. There is a high degree of variation in terms of the negation markers in terms of form and position from language to language. However even within languages that do express negative concord, there are different types. For example, a "strict negative concord language" such as Greek is characterized by a negative marker, which always is positioned alongside a negative quantifier according to Zeijlstra (2007: 504) who cites Giannakidou (1998, 2000) for the terminology. On the other hand, a "non-strict negative concord" language like the romance language Spanish, is when a negative marker word occurs in "postverbal position and one element in preverbal position, either an n-word or a negative marker," according to Zeijlstra (2007: 505). These categorizations are not exhaustive though and of course there are many exceptions.
Despite these internal differences, the fact remains that the existence of negative concord in this languages still yields an interpretation that in standard English would violate semantic features due to the double negation. 
According to the negative quantifier approach proposed by De Swart and Sag (2001), romance languages such as French convey two meanings with the use of double negations, however only one interpretation is maintained and that semantic analysis varies cross-linguistically (Zeijlstra 2007: 507). Again, the two interpretations are either taking every negation word to add to the overall negation in the sentence or assigning every negatively marked aspect of the sentence a negative interpretation, which would then cancel each other out. According to the negative quantifier approach, every negative marker would be considered a negative quantifier. 
Example about negative quantifier approach
An example given in (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 379 Negation and Negative Concord in Romance)
S’il y a quelque chose, il fera pas d’cadeau a personne. `  [restricted varieties][NC]

If there is something, he will not give a present to no one
= If there is something, he will not grant anyone a favor

Jan pa we pes` on [Haitian creole][NC] `
Jan not see no one
= Jan does not see anyone

Il y a pas personne en ville. [Queb´ ecois] [NC] ´
There is not no one in town
= There is no one/not anyone in town

In these examples, "an item can be embedded under pas if it is an indirect argument or in an embedded clause" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 379). Thus, the relation between negation and negation concord is subject to syntactic, in addition to semantic constraints"  "the interaction with the syntax suggests that we should treat the constraints on the interpretation of the concord item in the syntax-semantics interface, rather than in the lexical semantics of the concord item" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 380). = embedding of negative concord under negation
Resumptive polyadic Quantifier  - "If two negative quantifiers enter a scopal relation as an iteration of monadic quantifiers, we end up with double negation reading. If two negative quantifiers build a resumptive polyadic quantifier, we obtain the concord reading" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 383-384). 

Negative Polarity Approach 
Many sentences that express negation use words (in English) like anybody, anything, something, nothing etc. These types of words have a very unique and specific property in terms of negation in that they can only be used in particular sentence constructions Zeijlstra (2007: 509). These words are deemed negative polarity items (NPI) due to their limited use in negation-formulated sentences. NPIs are only allowed in sentences with a negative word like not and in addition, they "also have to be in a particular structural relationship with that negation word" (Carnie 2007:133).  In Japanese, NPIs like the word sika meaning "only" in English, also show negative concord.

NPIs must be in a c-command relationship with a negative licenser.
gets extremely complicated 

syntactic conditions of negative polarity
must be on logical form rather than on Surface structure
NPI must be represented as occurring in "immediate scope of negation operator"

Conclusion 
Regardless, every language has the ability to "revert the truth of a sentence," but they way in which the specific syntax formulates this negation greatly varies. X’ theory does not specify order so there is freedom to account for variation in language and freedom to alter complementizer head. 
Explanatory adequacy 




