Negation and Negative Concord
Introduction 
Every language, regardless of form, lexicon, or grammaticality constraints, has the ability to express negation. However, the manner in which negation manifests itself varies greatly language to language.
An interesting aspect of negation is a study of why some languages treat two or more negative elements as not double instances of negation and instead as one negation, but in other languages the double use creates two negative elements and they therefore cancel each other out (like English). The theory that most languages assume, those that do not mark the amount of negative elements, is known as negative concord. Standard English lacks this phenomenon but some dialects of English do use negative concord, but this exception, and a semantic anomaly is introduced as the double negative occurs. 
Standard English is then called a double negation language and English is actually the exception to the norm. Most languages like Spanish, Italian, Czech, Russian, Greek and many others demonstrate negative concord so in English it is like saying "I haven’t seen none" and with negative concord, this sentences maintains the interpretation that the speaker has not seen any as the two negations do not cancel each other out. In English this sentence would me that in fact, you have seen something because the double negatives cancel each other out.
Although there are many variations in form and position of the double negation, in all of the languages that demonstrate the negative concord phenomena, they all still only yield one negation despite many negative elements. Zeijlstra (2007: 505) points out that according to the study of linguistics the negative concord phenomena generates an odd issue because normally every part of a sentence should grammatically (in terms of form/syntax) and semantically (in terms of meaning) contribute to the overall function, but in this case not every word contributes to the overall message of the sentence. 
Although a semantic contradiction occurs in some languages, the negative quantifier approach and the negative polarity approach will be explored in this paper as guiding reasons for the negative concord phenomena which makes the sentence semantically plausible to create a negation.



Problem 
In order for a transformation to a negation to occur in standard English, do-support is needed, which means that you need the expletive (auxiliary) do inserted because inflection cannot be supported by affix hopping/lowering to the verb. X bar theory cannot generate all sentences and thus is it restricted, so a set of rules are vital to add to that structure and such rules are called "transformational rules." This new model takes the result of X-bar phrase structure rules and changes them into new and different trees. The flow of a sentence outcome starts by being comprised of X-bar rules and then it turns into D-structure due to constraints by theta theory. At this point transformational rules are applied and the result is the S-structure, which can also be constrained by rules like the Extended Projection Principle. For our purposes, negation only contains the word "not" though there are other categories that express negation with determiners like "no" or "none."
Essentially, the negative morpheme "not" blocks the operation of affix lowering and thus do-support is called upon. Affix lowering is blocked by the presence of "not" in English and this is known as stipulation. To reiterate, do support is needed to support the inflection because the affix lowering is blocked by negation. In English one cannot utter, "She not goes to the market" but one can say, "She does not go to the market."
However, in other languages, the expression of negation does not have such exceptions as English. In other languages the negation marker varies in terms of the position in the sentence. Due to this difference, the use of "not" or similar negative terms can change not only change the grammar but even the interpretation and semantic meaning of sentences. 

Dependency 
Negation generally presence of negation in the clause
How negation varies across languages, presence of single element across the clause
Two types
English/French negation between T and V
Negation higher element appearing before T
German 
  Zellotini cited by Zeijstra 


Negative Quantifier Approach
Every language has the ability to take away the truth of the sentence. It is vital to first understand the position of negative markers. There is a high degree of variation in terms of the negation markers in terms of form and position from language to language. However even within languages that do express negative concord, there are different types. For example, a "strict negative concord language" such as Greek is characterized by a negative marker, which always is positioned alongside a negative quantifier according to Zeijlstra (2007: 504) who cites Giannakidou (1998, 2000) for the terminology. On the other hand, a "non-strict negative concord" language like the romance language Spanish, is when a negative marker word occurs in "postverbal position and one element in preverbal position, either an n-word or a negative marker," according to Zeijlstra (2007: 505). These categorizations are not exhaustive though and of course there are many exceptions.
Despite these internal differences, the fact remains that the existence of negative concord in this languages still yields an interpretation that in standard English would violate semantic features due to the double negation. 
According to the negative quantifier approach proposed by De Swart and Sag (2001), romance languages such as French convey two meanings with the use of double negations, however only one interpretation is maintained and that semantic analysis varies cross-linguistically (Zeijlstra 2007: 507). Again, the two interpretations are either taking every negation word to add to the overall negation in the sentence or assigning every negatively marked aspect of the sentence a negative interpretation, which would then cancel each other out. According to the negative quantifier approach, every negative marker would be considered a negative quantifier. 
Example about negative quantifier approach
An example given in (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 379 Negation and Negative Concord in Romance)
S’il y a quelque chose, il fera pas d’cadeau a personne. `  [restricted varieties][NC]

If there is something, he will not give a present to no one
= If there is something, he will not grant anyone a favor

Jan pa we pes` on [Haitian creole][NC] `
Jan not see no one
= Jan does not see anyone

Il y a pas personne en ville. [Queb´ ecois] [NC] ´
There is not no one in town
= There is no one/not anyone in town

In these examples, "an item can be embedded under pas if it is an indirect argument or in an embedded clause" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 379). Thus, the relation between negation and negation concord is subject to syntactic, in addition to semantic constraints"  "the interaction with the syntax suggests that we should treat the constraints on the interpretation of the concord item in the syntax-semantics interface, rather than in the lexical semantics of the concord item" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 380). = embedding of negative concord under negation
Resumptive polyadic Quantifier  - "If two negative quantifiers enter a scopal relation as an iteration of monadic quantifiers, we end up with double negation reading. If two negative quantifiers build a resumptive polyadic quantifier, we obtain the concord reading" (HENRIËTTE DE SWART AND IVAN A. SAG 383-384). 

Negative Polarity Approach 
Many sentences that express negation use words (in English) like anybody, anything, something, nothing etc. These types of words have a very unique and specific property in terms of negation in that they can only be used in particular sentence constructions Zeijlstra (2007: 509). These words are deemed negative polarity items (NPI) due to their limited use in negation-formulated sentences. NPIs are only allowed in sentences with a negative word like not and in addition, they "also have to be in a particular structural relationship with that negation word" (Carnie 2007:133).  In Japanese, NPIs like the word sika meaning "only" in English, also show negative concord.

NPIs must be in a c-command relationship with a negative licenser.
gets extremely complicated 

syntactic conditions of negative polarity
must be on logical form rather than on Surface structure
NPI must be represented as occurring in "immediate scope of negation operator"

Conclusion 
Regardless, every language has the ability to "revert the truth of a sentence," but they way in which the specific syntax formulates this negation greatly varies. X’ theory does not specify order so there is freedom to account for variation in language and freedom to alter complementizer head. 
Explanatory adequacy 




