A Gnawing Dilemma
“Well what is your best attribute?” she asked. Last year I was interrogated by a barrage of questions such as these during an interview for Tufts University. My interviewer was a child psychologist but you wouldn’t know it. She was rude, cold and rolled her eyes at every word that slowly rolled off my tongue. She continued, “Give me a phrase that describes you.” Yes, I thought. I confidently stated, “I have perspective.” She stared into my eyes, lifted an eyebrow and moved on. “What? Not even a follow up question to that answer?” Truthfully, I had pondered that question long and hard and that was honestly my best answer. My best attribute revolves around my strong desire to be a good, caring person – I never miss someone’s birthday, an opportunity to say congratulations, to say thank you.  That was what I wanted to convey to this woman. I wanted to look deeply into that soul I knew she had and tell her I that I HAVE perspective.
            As the interview continued, my finger lifted to my crooked jaw unconsciously and I began to gnaw on my half eaten fingers. Suddenly, the interviewer’s interest sparked up. She hit me with a cannon ball of questions and I was unprepared for the responses. “Are you nervous? Why do you bite yourself? Do you hurt yourself in other ways?” She was getting bigger and bigger and I felt as small as ever. This is a joke. Like when a camera zooms in on your stuttering mouth and the world stares at your snag tooth and shivering lip.
            The truth is I used to bite my fingers. No not my nails like normal people, my fingers and knuckles. I had little self-confidence and I got nervous easily. I think it had to do with my way of life in high school. No not my way of life – it was my high school – competitive and stricken with overachievers. I needed to keep up. My stomach would ache for every quiz; my fingers would bleed prior to an examination.  I was so caught up in the fury of high school; my every move was a bad habit. Yes, I had to admit it – I was stressed. I always wanted to be like my siblings – to get a 100 on all my tests and win spelling bees, and Model UN competitions. Somehow, I thought my brother and sister were perfect as they were outstanding students at the top of their class. Of course, no one is perfect, but I tried so hard and I really thought I could emulate the achievements of other people like my siblings and close competitors. Chewing my skin was my vice, my way out of perfection. People would stare at me: teachers, students, parents, you name it. My lab partner in biology (not my favorite subject) took notice of my “eating habits.” I later learned he and his friends called me “knuckles” or “knucks” behind my back in light of my zest and taste for my knuckles.
            I’ll never forget my first manicure. It dates back to my Bat Mitzvah in 7th grade – the first year I had really started to chomp off my precious skin. Walking in, I hastily picked the lightest color polish so people wouldn’t actually notice my nails and hands on the big day. Before I was called over to sit down I had to take my Band-Aids off – all eleven of them. I told people, like my parents, I used Band-Aids to deter myself from nibbling at them when I was nervous, but in reality I used them to stop the blood and cover up the “tumor like swells” (as my friends called my fingers). I went through boxes of Band-Aids in a month and luckily, my parents, both physicians, always kept seemingly endless supplies of Band-Aids around the house. Every time I washed my hands, hit a tennis ball, or typed a paper I would have to replace all ten or eleven of the blood stoppers.
            At the salon I hid my dirty bandages in my pocket – there was no way I was walking over to the garbage and having every mother and child in my town watch me discard the casts, unveiling my barbarian habit. Then, the manicurist called me over to sit down. Oh no. I literally forgot to breathe, sat down and looked away. She examined my hands, nails, and cuticles for what felt like hours. Her bowed head lifted. Her chapped lips opened and she said in a broken Korean accent, “How did you manage to burn every single one of your fingers?” followed by a giggle. “Look at this girl,” she vociferously screamed to her co-workers. I pretended my lips were sewn shut and managed not to squirm a peep through the whole situation, even keeping my eyes fastened shut. The next worker said in an even harsher accent, “No boy will ever want to hold your hand – you’ll never get a boyfriend!” and they all laughed. Except me, of course.
            While the manicurist worked on my nails, I thought about a book my parents used to read to me as a child. It was called “The Berenstein Bears and the Bad Habit.” My parents must have read it to me eighty times. In the story, Sister Bear nibbled on her nails until “she had nibbled them down to nubbins.”  In the end, her parents bribed her with pennies to keep for each nail she didn’t nibble and voila, she was cured of her bad habit. Ha! If only it were that simple to stop my chewing (or if only they had offered that solution by a more significant order of magnitude...)
Senior year of high school, I enrolled in AP Psychology solely because my siblings had taken the course and well, I wanted to be just like them. In one particular lesson, we were discussing “fixations” that children become accustomed to as a result of parental abuse or neglect. Ms. Luis asked, “Did any of you not use a bottle or pacifier as an infant”? Instantly, my hand shot up. I was proud of this accomplishment; I was breast-fed and learned how to use a cup before all of my other classmates. However to my dismay, she claimed I must be “orally fixated.” Shocked, I replied in a defensive tone, “I am not orally fixated.” My friends began to giggle at my assertiveness. Ms. Luis continued, “Do you chew gum often?” “Yes,” I groaned. “Do you gnaw at your pens? “Yes.” “And finally, do you bite your fingers? “Um, well, yes.” I was whispering at this point. I was so embarrassed and now everyone in the class knew I had this “fixation problem.”
            I really did try to stop a couple of times. After the Band-Aids failed, I started to wear gloves to school…in June. Clearly, that didn’t work either. Next I tried that “foul tasting nail polish.” Again, this only forced me to eat further down on my fingers.
            There was one time when my obsession ceased, and that was during the summer. The moment school ended my fingers would begin to heal. I was away from the competitive school environment – no quizzes, standardized tests, or unfriendly lab partners to worry about.
            The best solution to my problem I discovered, however, was finishing high school. When people stop a bad habit, they usually gain insight into the problem and realize they are happy without having to resort to that need. Basically, I understood that stress, competition, and the desire to be perfect triggered my bad habit and I needed to work on the triggers as well as the self-inflicted finger chewing. I did not just suddenly relax about school altogether, but I finally had the time to realize that I could channel my stress into other aspects of my life – like playing a sport or taking a walk with friends. In high school the pressure was so constant whereby I did not have time to release any harmful energy so I resorted to harming myself in the moment. I am proud to say I have rarely chewed my knuckles since last spring and slowly my finger deformities have started to heal. There is only a faint discoloration on one or two fingers that remind me of my bad habit. And when I have tests or stress in college now, I quickly realize that I have gained “perspective”, something I actually had all along…

