Advertising Language Choice Considerations for Bilinguals
In multilingual countries around the world, the choice of language is central to mass media and the advertising industry. For an advertising agency that could be foreign or local, considerations of language use are complex and include the targeted audience and their perceptions, the product itself, and the effectiveness of the advertisement in terms of communicative ability and positive results. In particular, studies have shown that language choice of an advertisement may be influenced by the emotions and experiences a particular language evokes in a consumer. Ultimately, those feelings may persuade people to consume a particular product. When targeting a bilingual population, advertisers can choose single language use, bilingual use, or even a mixture for their ads. Current research, however, suggests that when deciding on language used in advertisements for bilinguals, advertisers should consider the native language, the consumption context of the advertised offering, and the emotional implications that are associated with each language. This paper explores language choice strategies that companies employ when targeting bilingual and multilingual populations and how those choices influence the population.
  Advertising in multilingual countries is becoming increasingly strategic and the choice of language can have effects on the consumer’s perception of the product being advertised.  In order to study the consequences of language choice in ads for bilinguals, researchers in urban India compared the language choice in ads for multinational corporations (MNC’s) versus local companies. The researchers conducted two studies to zero in on the differences between MNC and local company advertisements and to test for the effect of single versus mixed language advertisements on consumers (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 699).
  In urban India, Hindi and English are the official national link languages. In general, Hindi is informal and spoken more with family and friends whereas English is formal and spoken more at school or businesses (Bhatia & Ritchie 2006: 797). A questionnaire distributed to 46 undergraduates from the University of Delhi examined their attitudes towards language in terms of potential favorability and language association. In their pilot test to study language association, the results showed that subjects reported favorable assessments towards both languages. Furthermore, English was associated with progressivism, modernism, and sophistication while Hindi was associated with a sense of belongingness, closeness, and family (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 695-696). With the questionnaires completed, the researchers concluded that the two languages, English and Hindi, are both viewed favorably and essentially equally so the researchers could continue their research with further studies.
  The researchers based their framework on the “The Markedness Model,” whereby a certain language is “unmarked” if it is expected in an advertisement or “marked” if it is unexpected. In other words, if an ad has the expected language, the consumer focuses on the message, but if the language of the ad is unexpected, the consumer focuses on the choice of language in addition to its triggered associations (Myers Scotton 2000: 135). Taking this a step further, the researchers concentrated on the associations of English with the upper class, sophistication, exclusivity and Hindi with family, closeness, and belongingness. In terms of products, the researchers predicted that English would be associated with luxuries and Hindi with necessities (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 697).  In the first part of the study, the researchers used single language ads to compare language choice for local companies vs. MNC’s. They found language choice mattered more to MNC’s (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 700). They then hypothesized that for a MNC, Hindi would elicit more favorable evaluations for necessities whereas for a luxury item, Hindi would elicit less favorable reactions than English or a mixed language slogan.  Thus, they expected slogans to be more effective if associations matched the product category (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 698).
  After scanning different products, the ones chosen were chocolate for a luxury item and detergent for a necessity. In the next part of the study, students were given a print advertisement slogan either in English for chocolate, Hindi for chocolate, English for detergent, or Hindi for detergent. They were asked to evaluate the advertisements on two 7-point scales (good/bad and like/dislike). The results illustrated that when the product was chocolate, subjects preferred the English slogan compared to the Hindi slogan. However, when the product was the detergent, the Hindi slogan was viewed more favorably ((Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 700). In the second study, the participants were asked to list all of their thoughts and feelings that came to mind when they were simply exposed to a print advertisement. Study 2 yielded very similar results as study 1 whereby English signaled sophistication and modernism and Hindi yielded thoughts of belongingness and family (Krishna and Ahluwalia 2008: 701). 
This research in urban India highlights the fact that companies can produce a desired effect by choosing a language that is marked or produces emotional output on the consumer end. The MNC’s have the upper hand in terms of advertising because they can choose which language they want to use to target bilinguals and position their products accordingly, whereas language choice did not seem to matter for local companies. In the future, it is important for experimenters to test other types of products where the line between luxuries vs. necessities is more distinct. There are many confounding variables that were not addressed here such as if the consumer preferred one product to another or if the slogan for one item was deemed more creative than the other item. In addition, the study used students who were well-educated. Perhaps the results would be different if bilinguals were not so proficient in both languages.  Nevertheless, it is a good base study for demonstrating how the choice of language in an advertisement can be important in eliciting personal and specific emotions, which in turn, can affect one’s perception of a product.
In another more recent study by two researchers in the US, the authors ask not only whether the choice of language influences the type of thoughts a bilingual has in response to an advertisement, but also if those associated thoughts facilitate persuasion. In the United States alone, there are 50 million people who speak a language other than English at home (Noriega and Blair 2008: 69).  According to the authors, past research on language choice and advertising effectiveness for bilinguals has either focused on identity, ease of processing, or how the language used in an ad elicits personal and cultural characteristics (Noriega and Blair 2008: 69-70). In this study, the authors form three hypotheses. First, they surmise that native language ads cue more thoughts about FFHH (Family, Friends, Home, and Homeland) than second-language advertisements. Secondly, they hypothesize that this phenomenon is actually moderated by contexts and those contexts are stronger for ads in the native tongue. Lastly, in their third hypothesis, they suspect that a rise in FFHH thoughts translates to positive thoughts towards ads in addition to the brand and therefore, higher purchase intentions (Noriega and Blair 2008: 71-72).
  The premise of the first hypothesis ties into the idea that language and experiences have the capacity to cue one another. Contexts such as people, places, things, and symbols cue the language people use to communicate and the researchers argue the opposite is also true – that is, language cues contexts as well.  In the first part of this study, 82 bilinguals (French, Russian, Spanish, Farsi, Italian, Dutch, Korean, and more) whose second language is English were asked to either translate or not translate a tire cleaning product advertisement and a fictitious restaurant ad written in English (Noriega and Blair 2008: 72).  With the restaurant ad, respondents also had to write down their thoughts as they looked at the ad and these were then coded according to FFHH. Results showed that thoughts did not differ between translation and non-translation, but there was a statistically significant difference in translated thoughts relating to FFHH (Noriega and Blair 2008: 74). Furthermore, translation had a significant effect on the personal relevance of thoughts, but none of the other dimensions. The first hypothesis, then, that the native language (translated condition of ad) cues more FFHH-related thoughts was confirmed.  Of interest is the lack of association in the translated condition with target or positive thoughts. These results indicate that even though bilinguals may have specific thoughts in response to an ad, they may not have a positive attitude toward the ad, the brand, or any purchase intentions (Noriega and Blair 2008: 74-75). In other words, the ad itself may or may not be effective.
  In part two of this study, bilinguals who were Spanish language natives but were proficient enough in English to read print media were picked to participate in a comparison of ads that were already printed in both Spanish and English (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The first ad was a practice ad for an international bank and the second ad was for a fictitious restaurant. The fictitious restaurant ad was either in Spanish or English and there was one of each for dinner and lunch. By comparing lunch and dinner, the researchers were able to determine that dinner would be a stronger cue for a family consumption context (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The design of the study “was a 2 (language: Spanish vs. English) x 2 (consumption context: native language vs. 2nd language) between-subjects design” (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75). The participants were then randomly assigned to view the practice ad as well as a focal ad for dinner in either Spanish or English. For the fictitious restaurant dinner ad, the participants again had to write down all their thoughts as they perused the ad. As in the first study, thoughts relating to FFHH were measured and thoughts were also coded as per the scheme in the first study. In addition, the participants filled out a questionnaire measuring their reactions to the ad in terms of attitudes toward the ad itself, the brand, the product, and purchase intention (Noriega and Blair 2008: 75-76). Different scale models were then utilized to assess attitudes.
  Analysis of this study reveals contextual variables and native language are intimately connected and that consumption context should be another consideration when choosing a language for an ad. Results of this study might have been different or more dramatic if a more direct product associated with thoughts of home and family (as opposed to a restaurant) was used. Perhaps a study comparing products with native language contexts should be compared to products with second language contexts (for example, products relating to school or business) in the future.  Another problem with this study was the simplicity of the slogan itself – for the restaurant, the only visual cues were a fork and knife and this seems intentional so that the subjects would focus on the language and words. Perhaps a number of slogans with different visual cues could have been compared as well. Although this was a very complex study with multiple hypotheses, it does reveal that language choice for bilinguals is important and can be influenced by consumption context.   
  Another aspect of advertising consideration is the emotional implication of a consumer’s native language versus his/her second language. Companies are concerned with generating emotions with their slogans because it tends to be beneficial to the brand in terms of garnering attention and publicity (Puntoni 2008: 1012). Researchers in the Netherlands conducted five studies to investigate the perceived emotional outputs of marketing slogans in consumer’s first language (L1-French or Dutch) versus their second language (L2-English). (Puntoni 2008: 1012-1025).  Their hypothesis emerges from the idea of episodic trace memories and that every experience is stored in the mind as a part of the episodic trace and is clued by a textual element (Puntoni 2008: 1014). Hence, when text from a print advertisement is viewed, it may activate a specific experience and the accompanying emotions but only in same language contexts.
  For example, participants were asked to translate a given word into their native language and three words that came to their mind when writing down the word. The results concluded that participants who wrote down the desired word in their native language demonstrated much stronger emotional ties than those who wrote the word down in their L2 (Puntoni 2008: 1018). This is an interesting find but difficult to be applicable for larger companies. First, the study fails to identity what adjectives are deemed more “emotional” than others. Also, one wonders if certain languages are just more “emotional” in nature than others. Furthermore, consumers have such varied memories and emotional cues that it is difficult for companies to judge what type of slogans elicit the most emotional thoughts. However, a conclusion from all of the studies is that larger companies should consider communicating with their potential buyers in the native language of the country in the hope of exerting more emotional messages.
The topic of language choice for the purpose of advertising to bilinguals has become much more relevant as to how our global community interacts more than ever before. Much of the past research on language choice and advertising effectiveness has either focused on identity, ease of processing, or personal connections (Noriega 2008: 69-70). Often times, it was just assumed that advertising should be in the native tongue for better comprehension and acculturation.  For MNC’s, though, it appears that the consumptive product is of importance and perhaps, the second language or even a mixed language advertisement would be a better bet. Even McDonald’s recently noted that it was best to target the bilingual population with ads in both languages and this may become a new trend (Zampaulo 2011). Thus, the choice of language for advertisements is more intricate and advertisers need to consider other aspects such as consumption context and emotional implications.  More research needs to be conducted to see if there are any additional considerations.