
A Computer Mediated Fight for Language Dominance
When Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in 1980s, he founded it as a social construct, not as a particularly technological creation. He once stated, “I designed it for a social effect — to help people work together — and not as a technical toy. The ultimate goal of the Web is to support and improve our weblike existence in the world” (Cornett 2010). It is designed as a place to reach more information and people and arguably most importantly, a place for continual education accessible by anyone all over the world. However, even though more and more countries are garnering access to computers and the world wide web, English still tends to be the language of the internet, spanning across sixty-eight percent of all web pages (Global Reach as cited in Gandal 2003). A study recorded in the mid 1990s even stated eighty percent of soley international websites stood in English (Cyberspeech as cited in Herring & Danet 2007). Is English use on the internet the start of a universal language? Many fear the notion of linguistic imperialism as English continues to dominate Internet web pages, however, this fear has also fostered some countries to instill laws to persist other native languages besides English.
First, a brief history of the English language and its use on the Internet hints at a slight advantage towards a potential global language. Even the majority of research conducted regarding computer mediated communication (CMC) has been exclusively English based. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD; Default Language, 1999) ninety-one percent of websites who host “secure servers,” meaning there exists an exchange of money and credit card information, are portrayed in English (Herring & Danet 2007). E-commerce is a vital source of monetization across the globe and fuels the world’s economy, thus beckoning English as a prestigious language yet again. As a major means of global communication, trade, and commercial use cases, it’s vital to examine how this overbearing use of a dominant language is affecting internet users within countries outside of the United States. Within multilingual communities, are the circumstances in which indigenous languages are maintained in online settings?
Language use in Egypt is called a bilingual or sometimes a trilingual state. In most cases, there are two varieties of Arabic most commonly heard which are Classical Arabic and Egyptian Arabic (Haeri, 1997 as cited in Herring & Danet 2007). Examinations of various types of online and offline communication were conducted to analyze when and how native Egyptian people were utilizing the different dialects. The results concluded that for online communication purposes, Classical Arabic was rarely maintained, if ever, by the 43 participants. Interestingly, English, a completely foreign and not predominant language in Egypt, was used most in the extracts provided. Means such as informal and formal e-mails and chat rooms were cross-examined and English came in first place in terms of the overwhelming majority percentage of use, weighing in at over ninety percent (Herring & Danet  2007). Several variants of Arabic, both classical, roman, and egyptian, all fell much further behind, only tallying a maximum of two percent of language indication. Clearly, in this one example, a language not popularized even in daily outward speaking, assumed an overwhelming dominance in online capacities. 
Participants iterated several reasons for such usage of the English language. The presence of English was viewed most clearly among formal e-mails, implying a professional overtone that the English language may carry (Herring & Danet 2007). When crafting an email or a document filled with specific information, most of the sought research was found online in English and thus it seemed plausible and natural to continue the conversation in that language. Overall, the social, economic, and political construction associated with the English language contributed to it’s online presence in this Egyptian study.
Similarly, Neil Gandal of Tel Aviv University focused his study on native language use on the internet within the bilingual city of Quebec, Canada. The examination observed young and older Quebecois whose native language or L1 is French and L2 is English. According to the study, “native French speakers spent sixty-sixty percent of their online time on English-language websites” (Gandal 2003). Furthermore, younger speakers perused English sites far more often than their elder counterparts, suggesting that in the future, it’s quite possible that bilinguals will become monolingual in terms of online communication (Gandal 2003). He concludes that if the generational effect continues, English will retain it’s initial advantage and web developers will be unlikely to persist multiple languages besides English.
Due to this fear of linguistic congruence and loss of diversity, some countries have fought to maintain language differentiation. For example, in 1994 France issued a law stating that all online advertising must be written in the French language. The French Finance Minister even banned adopted words from English such as “email” and “IM” (Herring & Danet 2007). However, many argue that these efforts go unnecessary. Some modern researchers suggest that early studies may have deduced that English was becoming the world’s language, however the figures and facts are from the latest 2003, deeming them outdated (Zuckerman 2013). Organizations that strive to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity, like UNESCO, The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, believe that technology may be enriching the visibility of less widely spoken languages, as some spoken languages are finally getting written down (Zuckerman 2013). Additionally, in places where languages are growing endangered, online communications are building bridges by linking the known speakers together and giving them a broader audience. The internet could be an ideal place to bring together members of indigenous languages like Frisian, which is now spoken by 500,000 people across the world with the help of the internet (Gandal 2003). As more and more people enter the global web movement, it is possible that smaller languages will gain more prominence through non-native English speakers.
Personally, when I studied abroad in Seville, Spain, my native Spanish professors urged me to use the “credible English sources” because anyone could apparently get a piece of written work published online in Spain, but it is a much more tedious process in the United States to receive criticism and ultimate praise. Are all other countries instructing their students to search for English content instead of the country’s native language? Scholar Alvaro Blanco of FUNREDES (Foundation for Networks and Development) conducted much research on online linguistic diversity or lack thereof. As cited in Zuckerman, Blanco believes that major search engines especially include English results as top hits because English sites are the most profitable place to sell advertising (Zuckerman 2013). 
Thus, due to the fluidity and rapidity of technology change, it is impossible to indicate the degree of the effect that English dominance will have on non native English language speakers. Will English begin to replace other languages offline in addition to online? Or will other non popular languages gain traction and decrease the globalization of one language? Many questions will go unanswered for years to come. However, it is clear that the English language is disrupting countries where English never used to be spoken widely and research is just starting to be conducted on computer mediated communication. While the influence of language characterizations does not have a clear positive or negative implication, the connotation associated with English is leading to some degree of online and offline language change. 









