Throughout the Imperial, Soviet and post­Soviet periods in Russia’s turbulent history, a variable version of sport has always carried through in unique forms, correlated to historical, political, and social statuses of the economy. Over the course of the last 50 years, Russian sport has become a vector of power both at home and internationally in Olympic games and sport in general. However, the decades leading up to the victories were unstable due to the ever changing government control and the very nature of sport. Often, Russian spectator sports, or team sports, have been closely associated with
group identities reflecting the nature of Russian control. The Imperial, Soviet and post­Soviet periods began with highly localized identities and as Russia expanded and became dominant internationally following WWII, spectator sports induced strong national patriotism.
The origin of the term sport mirrors the way group identities of team sport have shifted over time. As history of usage determines the order of definitions in dictionaries it’s important to note that the modern sense of sport as a physical activity characterized by skill, rules and competition wasn’t defined until the 19th century (M. Makin, Introduction to Russian Sport, February 3, 2014). Prior to that
usage, sport was merely a pleasurable, entertaining activity usually only put into practice by nobility. After this definition, sport emerged to cover specific exertions like hunting and fishing to reflect both the daily physical activities of the peasants and elite (M. Makin, Introduction to Russian Sport, February
3, 2014). In its early use the sense of “sport” symbolized camaraderie based on socioeconomic class as the recreations completed were either based on entertainment or necessity, as was hunting for
sustenance for the poorer classes. The definition entries for the term “sport” can be thousands of words long and only with the formation of industrial society do we see a predominant modern usage.
Prior to any sense of codification, we see evidence that sport correlates to socioeconomic status in famous 19th century works of literature. For example, in the famous novel Anna Karenina penned
by Leo Tolstoy in 1877, there are three episodes detailing sporting events. For example, in one incident, Vronsky, Anna’s secret love affair, rides a horse in the eye of the entire upper class, only to tug the reins too firmly, failing himself, his horse, and society (Swartz, 1997). In an another event, an educated Russian scholar, Levin, participates in a game of lawn tennis at Vronsky’s estate. Evidently, Tolstoy portrays these team participant sports as belonging solely to the elite (Swartz, 1997). In the 19th century, it is only the nobility who could afford such land, infrastructure, and attire. The peasants not only lacked the resources like horses and land to compete, but they did not have time for leisure activity, as surviving the dearth of food supply was a full time job. Although Vronsky, Levin and others compete for honor and glory, ultimately they identify with one another as aristocrats.
On the contrary, Ivan Turgenev notes local “sport” for those who do not own land in the
Russian countryside in his book, A Sportsman's Sketches. One section entitled “Raspberry Spring” accounts a serf hunting for sustenance with beads of sweat dripping under the intolerable sun (Turgenev, 1897). While he so longs for a rest beneath the shade of a tree, he fights the urge knowing only too well he could die without hunting (Turgenev, 1897). Occasionally there lie interactions between the serfs, demonstrating mutual understanding of a common goal (Turgenev, 1897). The local peasants do not hunt and fish for entertainment though contrasting that of the nobility described in Tolstoy’s stories. At the culmination of the 19th century, strong local identities based on social status and class percolated through the diverse notions of Russian sport.
The upper classes grew desire for more forms of social entertainment and adopted hunting and fishing. This enabled contact between peasants and richer families hinting at a potential merger of identities over these sports (M. Makin, Sport Before Sport, February 11, 2014). However, some of these non codified sports began to lose distinction between classes as the government modified regulations over land use to facilitate economic development. For example, gambling became normalized for all classes to participate, and guns became affordable, as detailed by McReynolds in her chapter entitled Sporting Life as Modern Life (McReynolds, 2003). Horse racing, a sport once represented by the elite, suddenly became available to the public sphere when the first hippodrome was built for all spectators to observe and participate (McReynolds, 2003). The possibility of democratization and classless competitions quickly led to the emergence of modern sports as Russia began to learn from outside countries. The codification process was adopted from other countries and entered Russian society in the middle of the 19th century, post industrialization. The British people made a stamp on almost every corner of the earth with aspects of their culture, and Russia was no exception. There existed a large population of British subjects in St. Petersburg serving as merchants, armed forces personnel, and professionals which prompted western engagement in addition to new foreign policy mergers (Cross, 2003 & Keys, 2003). According to Cross, shooting and fishing were less interesting to the British and instead their efforts were focused on club sports, where rules, competitions and specific settings were ordered (Cross, 2003). Team sports like rowing, tennis, soccer or football, ice hockey, curling, and cricket were adopted by Russians and were in fact attached to clubs, leagues and cup competitions (Cross, 2003). The first Association Football national association in Russia was founded in 1912 with many other sports following its lead (Windhausen, 1993).
Industrialization and the strong British influence began to heavily shape Russian sports and the identity associated with these new leagues. For example, a Russian arts ambassador and multi­millionaire Savva Morozov actually sponsored a sports team to represent his factory (M. Makin, Sport Before Sport, February 11, 2014). The communities related to location and employment shaped new civic identities no longer completely divided by social or economic class. Now the competitions centered around city rivalries and some middle class players became local celebrities of sorts.
However this euphoric intra country competition was disrupted as the Bolshevik Revolution attempted to sever the relationships established between Russian and western organizations (Keys, 2003, p. 417). At this point in Russia’s history during the 1920s, Soviet authorities attempted to
disband competitive leagues and instead sought to promote a “physical culture” where all members of society would be prepared to become better workers as well as better fighters for military purposes (M. Makin, Soviet Domination, March 11, 2014). For example, corrective exercises, pageants and labour gymnastics were employed to “inculcate habits of collectivism, good hygiene and discipline” as mentioned by Keys in her piece Soviet Sport and Transnational Mass Culture in the 1930s (Keys,
2003, p. 417). She maintained that Stalin promoted a collectivist culture and individual athletes were not encouraged (Keys, 2003). There were even “Physical Culture Day Parades” held annually in Red Square (Edelman, 1993, p. 11). Russia was not competing internationally at this point, but there was an emergent feeling of patriotism and pride that would eventually lead to a strong sense of national identity.
Finally over the course of the 1930s, due to pressure from other countries and lack of achievement, the regime devoted more attention to sport but it wasn’t until the Cold War that sport training became an absolute priority (Keys, 2003). World War II caused extensive devastation and horror as 20 million people were estimated to have died and over 70,000 villages were destroyed (Riordan, 1977). Though for some, the prewar motto of “physical culture” for all citizens appeared to have paid off as activities such as skiing, shooting and wrestling proved to be useful for soldiers fighting in battle (Riordan, 1977 & M. Makin, Soviet Domination, March 11, 2014). Thus, the war ended up conveying a sense of satisfaction with regard to the energy invested in sport and physical exertion and modern spectator sports remerged with national pride (Riordan, 1977).
After World War II, Russia joined the global community by participating in many international events, most notably in the Olympic games. Since Russia was so intent on revealing the superiority of Communism to the world, sports became a way to showcase Russian supremacy. The Russians invested in modern sports facilities, large arenas, intensive training at early ages, and international competitions to eventually become known as a “Soviet sports machine” (Edelman, 1993, preface vii). The Russians performed well in the Olympics held after the war, but in what was supposed to be the pinnacle of glory for them, the 1980 Moscow Olympics, sports took a back seat as multiple nations banned the Olympics when Russia invaded Afghanistan (Edelman, 1993, p. 152). Although Russia tried to showcase their athletic dominance and large number of Soviet spectators attended the events, the so­called success of the games was self­propelled while other nations held a dim view of Russia’s political maneuvers.
The 1980’s and 1990’s were filled with more political downfall such as the dissolution of the Soviet Union and sports culture in Russia was affected. For example, in revenge for the boycott of the 1980 Olympics, Russia did not participate in the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles (M. Makin,
Introduction to Russian Sport, February 3, 2014). Many Russian athletes were negatively impacted
by this action, especially soccer players because the boycott of the LA Olympics caused FIFA to decide not to pick Russia as the site of the 1990 World Cup (Edelman, 1993, p. 154). Also, as many former Soviet republics declared independence with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, many athletes changed allegiance and played for their republics and not for Russia (M. Makin, Fall and Rise, March 18, 2014). Yet, towards the end of the century, Russia poured monetary resources and recruited coaches and athletes to rebuild it’s sports machine and reestablish a collectivist identity.
The late 20th and 21st century may be aptly characterized as major sports domination for Russia. Russia has become a global player in the modern sports marketplace, from hosting Olympic games, to famous tennis players like Maria Sharapova, to winning Ice Hockey teams, and they aren’t slowing down. In the most recent Winter Sochi Olympic Games Russia took home the most combined amount of medals. President Putin was a strong presence at the games to convey Russia’s athletic prowess and help boost Russia’s image to the world. The Russian government is likely going to host the 21st FIFA World Cup in 2018, once again displaying its willingness and power to shell out an extraordinary amount of money on venues, transportation systems, tourism and its beloved players ("Russia united for," 2012).
However, throughout all of Russia’s history there has never been a discrete focus on the individual athlete as the collective has always been tied to the Russian political and social system. For example, at the most recent Sochi games, the successful Russian male ice skater, Evgeni Plushenko,
was criticized by Russian authorities because he withdrew from the male skating event with a hip injury, even after he helped Russia win a team gold medal (Sekretarev, 2014). Plushenko did not receive complete support from his country as the Russian government viewed this lack of participation as hurtful as he may have cost Russia another medal (Sekretarev, 2014). In addition, many Russian spectators did not even attend the male ice skating competition because there was no Russian ice skater to represent them. Evidently, with Russia’s intense focus on winning for national pride, individual athletes may feel pressure to hold up the Russian collectivist facade. Identity roles have shifted over the course of Russia’s history, but team sport has usually mirrored Russia’s social and political system which today represents fierce collective nationalism.

