Modernity is often defined by the presence of quantification in everyday life. Likewise, the modernity of certain sports can be largely defined by the amount of quantification each sports culture has surrounding it. The more rooted in numbers a game is, the more modern it is. In the case of the most popular team sports around the world, two particularly stand out as extremes in individual quantification. On one side, baseball developed a system of quantification very early in its history and has continued to expand to this day, with the advent of sabermetrics. Soccer, on the other extreme of the popular global team sports, has failed to develop any kind of popular statistical measurements other than the amount of goals an individual has scored. For the sake of comparison, basketball, which fits closer to the middle of both extremes, provides a good example of what most other sports resemble in terms of quantification. This paper will first identify baseball as the sport best suited for quantification by means of its unique characteristic as an individual’s game. It will then compare basketball and soccer’s traits that produced vastly different outcomes in terms of ability to be quantified. It will then discuss each sport’s progress towards the use of advanced statistics to better quantify an individual’s performance, comparing each sport’s development of advanced stats to how well the traits inherent to each game allowed for quantification from each game’s beginning. Through this process, it will be clear that the way a game is structured is the main determining factor in the development of quantification in a sport, ultimately determining how quickly the sport is able to develop advanced statistics and thus become a modern entity. 
Baseball quickly developed ways to quantify what spectators were watching and provided the base for statistical judgments in sports. This was largely due to its nature as an individual sport disguised as a team sport. Because the idea of the game was a matchup between a batter and a pitched competing directly against only each other, one battle at a time, success or failure of either individual was easily determinable. This spawned the idea of the batting average, introduced soon after the game was professionalized and allowed for spectators and players alike to know exactly how successful an individual was performing. Not long after, more stats, such as RBI, home runs and wins and losses were introduced, again adding tangible results for each pitcher-batter interaction. As a result, spectators were able to get a clear idea of what an individual player contributed to the team. Later, with the advent of sabermetrics, exact numbers of a player’s contribution and value became calculable, using these basic stats as a springboard. Due to its individualist nature, baseball provided a game perfect for quantification, giving it a head start towards modernity. 
On the other hand, soccer and basketball are both team-oriented games that required cooperation and reliance on other players for both the team and individuals to be successful. Clearly, this hurts both games in attempting to determine the skills of an individual independent of his teammates. In basketball, however, this was somewhat mitigated by the fact that the game has many quantifiable outcomes – made baskets, assists, blocks, and rebounds, to name a few – which can be accumulated many times over the course of a game. Soccer, known as the "simplest game," did not have anything like this, with large portions of the game being passes between teammates without a clear indication if any singular pass – aside from not limiting the other team’s chances – has any impact on a team’s chances of winning the game. Due to its slow pace in comparison to basketball, few stats could be easily recorded. Since both basketball and soccer are so heavily team-oriented, observation is crucial in determining how talented a player is compared to his teammates and the opposition. Still, since basketball games score at a much higher pace, it is possible to acquire a decent idea of who the main contributors in a basketball game were by virtue of the stat sheet, whereas the same would be impossible in soccer. Ultimately, as it was from the start, basketball was in a decent position to be quantified more precisely, with soccer having almost no base for any kind of object quantification off which to build. While both could not match baseball and its inherent focus on individuals, basketball remained substantially ahead of soccer. 
As time progressed, baseball began another process that definitely pushed it the rest of the way into modernity and allowed for much greater and much more accurate quantification of individuals. Its leap forward began with the sabermetric revolution, lead by Bill James, in which statistics were used to quantify exactly how much value an individual added to his team. James favored the use of on-base percentage over the traditional batting average and strikeout-to-walk ratio over win-loss record, as he acknowledged that these statistics were a better measure of what an individual player contributed to a team. Eventually, players were able to be quantified by single number values, with the development of statistic groups such as defense-independent pitching statistics (DIPS), which quantifies a pitchers’ success independent of his defense and is one of the most accurate predictors of future success. The ability to quantify games in such a manner allows for baseball teams to find players best suited for success outside of their current team by determining exactly what role the individual can play on a team. Initially brought into mainstream baseball culture as a way to give an advantage to the smaller-market teams without having to match the spending of the bigger clubs, the strategy is now used by every team in MLB. This ability to quantify has brought the game fully into the modern age. It allows for teams to accurately assess a player’s value and brings structure to any debate over the skills of any two players that cannot be found in any other sport. While attempts have been made to follow baseball’s lead, none have found the same level of success as sabermetrics has, as no other sport has the same history of statistics like baseball had. 
Basketball and soccer have both made attempts at quantifying their games to similar degrees as baseball has, but both have found it more difficult at having actual success. With basketball having a better foundation to work from, it has still improved its standing as a modern game much more than soccer has, focusing itself on tempo-free statistics, which look to compare players by removing the effects of a different amounts of playing time. One of the most famous and most popular basketball statisticians is ESPN’s John Hollinger, who devised the formula for Player Effiency Rating (PER), based on these concepts. His formula is build off adjusting traditional stats, such as points, blocks, and rebounds, and turning them into a singular number to show a player’s complete value. Still, as basketball is a team game, it remains tough to completely determine how much an individual’s performance impacts the rest of the players on the court and how to specifically quantify what is and is not important. While PER as one of the many ways progress is being made, it still fails to take into account a player’s actions without the ball, still leaving significant portions of the game unable to be quantified. Basketball certainly has made strides in improving its ability to judge individuals solely on their performance, but even then, human analysis of the data is required and it must be judged to see if it seems viable to account for its inability to cover all aspects. Unlike baseball, the game cannot entirely be turned to into numbers, thus leaving it beyond it in terms of modernity. Advanced statistics still provide aid in making informed decisions in the NBA, but are not as widely trusted as sabermetrics. This use, however, does leave the sport ahead of soccer, where advanced stats are still in their development stage, leaving the game behind in terms of its modernity. 
Soccer has struggled in attaining any kind of statistics over the course of its history and has just recently even attempted to create statistical measures to judge players. One of the first ways numerical judgments were brought to soccer was "player ratings," which were first introduced by Match, an English soccer magazine, in the 1970s. This ranking system, which is widely used today, relies on certain observers – generally writers or journalists – to watch the game and give each player a rating from 1-10 based on how they think each player performs. While adding numbers to the game, this system fails to do what sabermetrics does and the advanced basketball stats attempt to do. Rather than give an objective evaluation of on-field action, the player ratings just assign an arbitrary value to a player’s game in a highly subjective and unscientific manner. While helping guide fans’ opinions about players, it fails to quantitatively summarize a player’s actions with hard evidence like stats such as PER do.  Recently some soccer clubs, in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage, have tried to develop objective statistics by hiring firms to use sophisticated technology to track many different aspects of the game. Companies such as Opta and Match Analysis use teams of workers to "watch a live feed of a soccer game and chart every distinct action," resulting in as many as 2,500 distinct actions coded per game. The results from these technologies allow for stats such as "individual player touches, number of passes and to whom, and number of balls won and lost." These numbers have the ability to form the backbone of complex individual statistics, similar to how stats like rebounds and assists form the backbone of PER, but currently have not led to any significant breakthroughs. This leaves soccer in a position where it may be able to approach the level of modernity that basketball has currently reached in terms of its quantification. Like basketball, it is a complex game where teammate interactions and spontaneity play the greatest role in generating an offensive attack. With more players on the field and much less scoring, soccer has been much tougher to actually quantify, but with revolutionary technologies, it, like basketball has achieved to a degree, will likely be able to determine how much of an impact a player has on his team’s success. Given the financial benefits and competitive advantages teams that first figure out accurate statistical models have, it is only a matter of time before soccer makes significant steps in its process of modernizing its methods of quantification. 
Baseball, basketball, and soccer each represent a different stage of modernity through quantification. Baseball, which has always lent itself to statistical quantification, currently leads the way in its ability to clearly determine an individual’s contribution to a team. As a sport composed of individual matchups, it lent itself to individual statistics and was thus able to be quantified easier than the more team-oriented games of basketball and soccer. As both games rely heavily on a collective effort, individual contributions to the team have been more difficult to parse out. However, basketball has succeeded where soccer has not yet been able to, making it a more modern game in terms of its ability to be quantified. Overall, these three games represent different approaches to modernization through quantification of individuals. Each game’s unique structure has lead it to where it currently stands in its ability to quantify, though it is clear for each, the goal remains to continue to do so as much as possible. By doing so, teams gain a better understanding of what makes players successful and allows them to make more informed decisions on who to acquire and the price to pay for a player’s services. Thus, in quantification comes modernization, which leads to more rational decision making, supported by the statistical prowess of each sport. 
Over the course of the twentieth century, soccer grew into the most popular sport around the globe, yet during the same time, failed to do the same in the United States. In the U.S., it has remained marginalized, followed only by segments of the population, failing to reach hegemonic status as in Europe, Central and South America, and many other regions around the world. The reasons for this are numerous, though mainly have to do with the strong influence the game has outside the United States, which made it a less appealing game during the formative years of the American sports space. In this paper, I will examine how the game was identified as a British game from its roots, how the majority of its American audience and participants were immigrants, and how the game’s authority lied outside of the United States in FIFA. Through this progression, it will be clear that the main reason for soccer’s lack of success was due to its identity as "non-American" and its inability to become so. 
Since its main fourteen laws were established in England in 1860s, soccer – or, as it’s known in England, football – has always been identified as a British game. Upon its introduction in the United States shortly afterwards, soccer retained its British identity, presenting its first challenge in attaining a following in the United States. During a time when Americans were keen on establishing their own culture identity, this presented a hindrance to the game’s ability to establish a significant following. Unlike baseball, which separated itself from the English versions of similar games aided by the Doubleday creation myth used to establish its American-ness, soccer was clearly a game with a significant international influence and following. With this burden and during a time period in which the New York Times "urged Americans to develop their own analogous yet original activities that would be appropriate to American life and experience," the deck was stacked against anything with non-American origins. Thus, the ability for soccer to succeed was limited from the beginnings of its introduction in the United States. 
Soccer was also harmed by the facts that, of the people in the country that took up the sport, many were immigrants or came from recently immigrated families. Team affiliations and names referenced a particular cultural identity, such as Brooklyn Celtics, Anglo-Saxon F.C., and Spanish-American F.C. While players did not have to be of the particular ethnicity to play on a specific team and many were American-born, the names showed the game to have an ethnic identity apart from mainstream American culture. Rather, the game was popular among immigrant groups as a way of maintaining a strong connection to the country from which each group emigrated. Ultimately this classification further isolated soccer from the American public, where anti-immigrant beliefs were still widely held. With other more popular and more clearly American sports able to be played, soccer maintained an existence outside of the average American’s consciousness. 
Finally, since soccer is controlled by the international organization of FIFA, the game was further shown to be without sufficient American influence. Early in soccer’s history, when a dispute broke out between the AFA and the AAFA – two American soccer organizations striving for legitimacy – the two were told by FIFA to combine to form one soccer governing body in the United States that answered directly to FIFA. This indicated to the public that the game was clearly un-American and that its success elsewhere was just as important as it was in the United States. Also, it prevented changes to the rules and culture of soccer that may have been able to Americanize the game to help it better appeal to the masses. For example, when the ASL – the first viable professional league in the U.S. – attempted to stop its teams from playing for an American challenge cup in 1928, FIFA excommunicated the league for disobeying its orders. While the league was attempting to do what was in its and American soccer’s best interest, it broke FIFA’s established code, which ultimately lead to its demise. Though the league’s decision may have helped it grow into the American sports space, FIFA, without the same context and knowledge of the situation got involved to maintain their power. The effects of this were two-fold. First, it prevented Americanization of the game which may have been able to draw more interest to the game and second, it displayed that foreigners were in control of the game, even in localized disputes. Together these were even enough to turn off many Americans who had taken interest in soccer and severely hindered its growth in the United States for decades. 
Soccer’s lack of success in the United States for much of its history can be directly attributed to its characterization as a foreign game. At its inception in the country, its popularity was limited by the contrast between its British history and American attempts to establish a separate cultural identity. When it did begin to grow, many players were immigrants, using soccer as a way to remain connected to their country of origin, again giving most Americans a reason to ignore it. Once more Americans did begin to catch on, FIFA established its dominance over the game’s domestic influence, again turning away fans that were forced to reconcile with the fact that the Americans had no power over the game’s legislation. Ultimately, this sequence of events made it difficult for soccer to establish significant, stable popularity in the United States, despite its ability to do so in a majority of countries around the world. 
Soccer’s proliferation into the European continent was quick and complete after its formal establishment in England, though it was met with strong resistance in many places before it became wholly accepted by the culture of each nation. In the case of Germany, where it faced the heaviest resistance, nationalistic pride and different beliefs about how people should remain physically fit impeded soccer’s ability to succeed for some time. Ultimately though, it was able to become hegemonic across all of Europe. This essay will break down Germany’s resistance to the game due to its affinity for gymnastics, progress into discussing the game’s presence due to the overwhelming influence of English economic endeavors, and explain how this along with the games simplicity made it possible for soccer to turn into its own source of nationalistic pride, despite its foreign origins. Through this, it will be clear that authorities do not have complete control over whether a game gains popularity. Certain aspects of a game and the environment it exists in can help overcome strong resistances and once the game transcends authority to become culturally hegemonic, the authority, rather than fighting it, will adapt and use the popularity to best suit its purposes.  
The German disdain for soccer at its outset was two-fold, both relating to the German ideals of "turnen" – gymnastics – as culturally hegemonic. First, gymnastics was a source of nationalistic pride for Germans, established by Friedrich Ludwig Jahn in an attempt to reestablish national strength after their defeat at the hands of Napoleon. Soccer then presented the opposite – an invading foreign cultural force that attempted to overtake the strictly German gymnastics role in society. By allowing soccer a place in German culture, nationalists believed too much power was being transferred away from German identity and put into foreign hands.
Also of importance was gymnastics place in German society as a form of exercise and personal development.  As gymnastics came to be viewed as a "holistic construct designed to enhance body and spirit," any threat to gymnastics popularity was a seen as a threat to the fitness of the German people.  Since soccer presented that threat, it was argued that it had to be prevented from further expanding into German society. It was even argued to be linked to the "English disease" of infant spine inflammation, a thesis postulated to scare Germans away from the sport while identifying with the game’s health risks compared to the established benefits of gymnastics. 
By the turn of the twentieth century, however, soccer managed to overcome the forces fighting against its dissemination, growing out of the increased presences of the English in Germany. English businessmen traveling into country continued to bring the game with them, establishing a local presence in many of the mining and steel towns. As more Englishmen traveled to Germany and then as more Germans traveled to England, the game was brought back and forth overseas and introduced by multitudes of people. Since English culture was overwhelmingly present, the game was given many chances to catch on, which it took advantage of by doing so.  
The inherent nature of soccer as "the simplest game" also aided its ability to grow into popularity. Rather than follow have any complex rules like most other sports, soccer makes its goal apparent to even the most untrained eye. Instead of having to take the time to learn the rules, anyone can pick up on the fundamental basis of the game – score more goals than the opponent – and instead begin to learn to play right away. This characteristic of soccer made it easily transferable, even across language barriers and allowed it to gain popularity quickly. After its introduction into Germany, it did just that, as people from across the middle class begin to play, which quickly allowed the game to disseminate to the lower class and give it a national following.  
Ultimately, as soccer became increasingly popular, German authorities used it to become its own kind of nationalism. Upon realizing that the popularity of soccer could not be quelled, Germans attempted to make the game their own instead of letting it become a symbol of English culture. For example, the DFB – German’s soccer authority – set up translation boards that translated all soccer terms into German rather than having to use English terms to reference the game. Eventually, the game evolved into one of the biggest representatives of German nationalism, bringing together all of Germany in its following. 
Soccer, despite its resistance from the German cultural authorities, managed to grow quickly into Germany’s biggest sport. The resistance proved to only be a slight hindrance when compared to the strength of the English cultural presence in Germany in the late 1800s. Since soccer was such an easy game to learn, this made it easily transferable, thus encouraging the growth of the game. Once established, authorities realized they could not successfully fight it and rather than discouraging the play of soccer, they transformed the game into one of German influence in the country and turned it into a source of cultural pride and nationalism. 