The theories about the evolution and development of human language are as diverse as the fields of study that attempt to piece together an answer to the question. Linguists, anthropologists, psychologists and professionals in various specialized fields of biology, from evolutionary biologists to neuroscientists to geneticists have all contributed to get as much of answer to the questions as possible. The theories from across the multitude of disciplines oftentimes contribute to parts of other theories, though at the moment little is definitely known. In this paper, I will first discuss some of the unavoidable problems inherent with trying to study this topic and then proceed to look at how the development and spread of language is connected to the Out-of-Africa hypothesis of human evolution. From there, I will examine thoughts on the anatomical changes thought to be necessary for the development of human language and the processes in which they may have evolved. Finally, this paper will examine some competing theories about whether this occurred with a single mutation or was a gradual change over time, ultimately proposing that a synthesis of some of the theories provides the best possible explanation based on current evidence.  
While it is possible (and will be explored later in this paper) to reasonably speculate about the evolution of the first developments of language as it came to exist in humans, there are many reasons why only pieces of the whole question can be explored. As Jenkins attributes to John Maynard Smith, "language is difficult because it leaves behind no fossils." Jenkins discusses and counters this by saying that there are still ways, such as studies of pidgins and creoles or language disorders, the development of language can still be studied. While this is true, it does limit the directions the studies can take. Lyle Campbell reviews this issue by specifically discussing how much languages change in relatively short periods of time. He claims that "by glottochronology, after about 14,000 years, nearly all of a language’s basic vocabulary will be replaced." Though he acknowledges that the methods of glottochronology may not be strongly supported, there is still strong evidence that languages change relatively quickly. Since language must be at least 40,000 years old, possibly older, with the reasons addressed later in this paper, it is impossible to find how languages that split before that point relate to one another, at least by common etymologies, as some linguists try to argue. Campbell uses this point to illustrate the impossibility of trying to use present-day languages to try to construct a method by which all languages relate to a "proto-world" language – the first language. Thus, he emphasizes, nothing can be learned about the first language from the language extant today. By this reasoning, little can be learned about the origin of language from a linguistic perspective.  
Despite the issues presented by Campbell, Quentin Atkinson attempted to trace the spread of language of using the concept of phonemes – the smallest unit of sound in a word – and a model of the Out-of-Africa hypothesis where small groups of humans initially populated new areas, creating a founder effect. Smaller populations correlate to a smaller base of phonemes, implying that with each subsequent founder effect, the number of phonemes decreases. As populations develop farther away from the place of the origin of language, they are then expected to have fewer phonemes. 
As it is widely accepted that humans migrated out of Africa within the past 100,000 years  and thought that spoken language only evolved once, it is thought that the development of language must have developed before that migration. Atkinson suggests that it may even be the case that the development of language was the key that allowed modern humans to spread across the world. As evidence of this theory, Atkinson tested phonemic diversity from across the world and found that languages from Africa have the highest level. After accounting for population size, Atkinson’s regression on the distance from the proposed origin of language accounts for 19% of the variance in phonemic diversity. Atkinson finds that "the single major cline in phonemic diversity is consistent with a linguistic founder effect operating….from a most likely origin in Africa…  is congruent with similar analyses of human genetic and phenotypic diversity." 
Atkinson’s data also finds that the region with the most phoneme diversity after Africa is Southeast Asia. He suggests that this means that the populations in these areas grew the most rapidly after the exodus from Africa, which would have limited the bottleneck effect and allowed for the most time to recover phoneme diversity. Alternatively, a recent study suggests that migration from Africa initially headed east, reaching Malayasia as early as 60,000 ago before groups from the East, rather than Africa, migrated back towards Mediterrean and subsequently Europe, which also supports Atkinson’s findings. 
In order to develop language, two independent processes must have evolved to make its development possible. Humans had to both develop the ability to speak a vocal language as well as the, as Noam Chomsky describes, "capacity to deal with discrete infinities through recursive rules", which will be discussed in the next section of this paper. The time period of the development of the important elements in the human vocal track is currently debated, as competing studies have each reached a separate conclusion as to whether Neanderthals and other hominids had the same structure. In fact, much of the important elements for speech are selected for a different function: eating. While it is known that the fully modern vocal tract was not developed until about 50,000 years ago, as evidenced by the discovery of a Middle Pleistocene fossil that did not have a 1:1 ratio of length of horizontal oral cavity to vertical pharyngeal cavity that modern humans have that allows for the vowel sounds of i, u, and a.
However, before this time, there must have still been some speech important to the survival of individuals. This is attributed to the fact that humans would not have developed and maintained the supralaryngeal vocal tract currently present because it significantly increases the risk of choking to death. The increased deaths from the presence of this trait must have had a selection advantage because of its usefulness in speech. More evidence of speech occurring before the development of modern humans is the fact that, while not present in other nonhuman primates or even Homo ergaster, both humans and Neanderthals developed a larger thoracic region of the spinal cords. This development is attributed to the fact that breathing during speech requires extra muscles of the thorax and abdomen, suggesting Neanderthals also had some abilities for speech. 
While not as specialized as humans, Lieberman suggests that chimpanzees’ vocal tract is sufficient for vocal language. Despite this, chimpanzees still cannot talk, even though they vary their calls in ways that are similar to the way human speech conveys different words. This suggests another piece of the developmental pattern for speech: proper neural circuits. 
Also important for the development of language are strong neural capabilities that connect different regions of the brain and allow for abstract thought. Corballis claims that "articulate speech required radical change in the neural control of vocalization." In humans, this development has been enhanced by a "separated neocortical system" that synapses "directly with the brainstem nuclei for the vocal cords and tongue." Some primates have developed call systems that also are governed by neural mechanisms rather than sub cortical structures, such as vervet monkeys which have a complex system of calls used to share information about nearby predators.
The difference between humans and primates is still immense, however. Humans have developed a complex system of neural connections that divide functionality between the left and right hemispheres of the brain. While some research suggests other primates have developed similar systems, they remain much less complex. For example, in humans "substantial portions of neocortex on the lateral convexity of the cerebrum are critical to speech production and  comprehension, whereas  homologous regions in  the  monkey  brain  apparently  do  not  play  a  significant  role  in  either  learned  or spontaneous phonation." 
To complete the connection between the development of these critical neural connections and the development of language, a corresponding change in the genome of humans must also be identified. Evidence suggests that this crucial gene is the FOXP2 gene, which is present and highly conserved in all mammals. Its fundamental role in humans can currently be seen by an extended family in England, known as the KE family, in which about half of the members are affected by a speech and language disorder that effects a child’s first attempts to speak and persists through adulthood. The disorder, which has been traced to a point mutation on the FOXP2 gene, causes under activation of certain areas of the brain related to the neural circuits required for language. The family members with the disorder "are unable to protrude their tongues while closing their lips…have difficulty repeating two-word sequences  have signiﬁcantly lower scores on standardized intelligence tests than their nonafﬂicted siblings.." 
While the human gene differs in only 3 places from that of a mouse, two out of the three changes have occurred since the human lineage has split from chimpanzees, with one critical mutation thought to have occurred less than 100,000 years ago.. Lieberman claims that it is "clearly implicated in the formation of neural circuits that regulate human cognitive and motor capacities." He suggests that mutations acting on it would have "enabled rapid, coded speech" which would have enhanced the selection of the traits that allowed for a complete human vocal tract, as previously discussed.  
There exist competing theories about the idea of the ability for language as occurring with a single mutation, such as the FOXP2 gene, or if the process was more gradual. Crow argues that because evidence of representational ability only goes back 50,000 years, it is a trait specific to humans and possibility the defining trait of humans.. He argues that a gradual process could not account for an entirely novel process such as language, which causes him to define the mutation that allowed for the development of language as the speciation event that created modern humans. Chomsky suggests that a single mutation that caused a rewiring of the brain to allow for "capacities for complex thought, planning, interpretation, and so on" which then spread to the population due to obvious selection advantages. Building on this way of thinking, Berwick clarifies that this complex, rational thought was initially internal but eventually became connected to the sensory motor system, which then allowed for the development of language.  
Corballis exists on the other side of the argument. He suggests that since the anatomical structures that evolved for speech are so complex, that they could not have evolved suddenly along with the mutation Chomsky necessary for complex thought. Rather, they must also have been selected for and evolved to the point were things such as the vocal tract reached the complexity it did at the time it did. Instead, Corballis argues that language first developed as gestures and facial expressions, which would explain why primates are much better at picking up on sign languages than they are at learning vocal ones. This argument is supported by the discovery of a "mirror system" in the primate brain where the same neurons fire when an individual either sees a gesture or make the gesture itself. As this region is thought to be homologous to the Braca’s region in humans – an area important for speech – it intuitively follows that speech could have evolved from a gesture-based system. Likewise, Leiberman points out that the reason human abilities appear so distinct is that the intermediate forms with intermediate abilities, such as Neanderthals, have gone extinct. Steklis proposes that the history of human speech dates back to the earliest hominids, who he argues communicated in a similar manner to great apes today. Corballis summarizes these viewpoints, arguing that perhaps "grammatical language evolved relatively slowly…and that the late-comer was not language itself, but rather speech." 
The idea of the origin of language is a complex and involves many different fields in its study. It requires the certain anatomic structures to evolve, as well as a capacity for complex thought and the neural connections required to make and vocalize these. Complicating the issue is the confusion surrounding the idea of consciousness, the question of its necessity for language, and how communication could occur before the vocal structures required for modern, spoken language were in place. The study of languages, though impossible to directly relate to one another, have provided a reasonable model for the migration of humans and have supported spoken language’s development in Africa sometime between 50,000-100,000 years ago.