Creation stories are essential in forming the core of a religion’s belief system, introducing basic information about the main tenets of the religion. Both Hesiod’s Theogony and the book of Genesis tell of the creation in Greek mythology and the Judeo-Christian tradition, respectively. Both tell of the history of the world from its initial creation to the beginning of history and beyond. In the process, both share important insights about the origins of sin and the history of acts of evil. In fact, each text attempts to pinpoint the first sinner in history, but rather, in the process of explaining the acts of each and the rest of the world’s response to it, demonstrates that the will to sin and commit violence is an inherent trait forever ingrained in the human psyche. The act of sinning, therefore, is the result of an imperfect creation and demonstrates the fallibility of humans, rather than any fall from perfection. 
In the Theogony, imperfection is demonstrated through the actions of the original sinners – the gods of creation. The blame of original sin is cast upon Uranus – the sky – for suppressing his children deep within the earth – Gaia – who was the children’s mother. Uranus “rejoiced in his evildoing”, citing the first example of an innate desire to protect oneself at the expense of others. In response, Gaia “develop[ed] a scheme both cunning and wicked,” displaying her own ability to sin. Though she later convinces her son, Cronus, to harm his father by explaining to him that “[Uranus] was the first to conceive of disgraceful and criminal conduct,” she plays a near equal role to that of Uranus in the act of original sin. Technically, Gaia’s actions are in response to Uranus’s, but, by developing her “wicked scheme,” she is not free from blame herself. By responding to treachery with more treachery and deceit, Gaia demonstrates that she is just as apt to sin as the being she claims is the first evildoer. This reveals that the desire to commit deceit for personal gain is a trait common to all beings in this story of creation. Though there is technically a being that sinned first, the story demonstrates that all life is capable – and will – commit sin. As these beings are gods, founders of all life, it also reveals that the lesser mortals – humans – are also created with imperfection and therefore bound to follow similar behavioral patterns. 
Humanity’s link to the sin of the original sin of the god in Greek mythology is established with the birth of the Furies, deities which seek and encourage revenge and, by extension, sin. Born of Gaia after she “accepted/All of the blood drops” from the castration of Uranus, that she arranges Cronus to complete. This result directly ties the gods’ actions with those that humans will later take part in. The sin of the of the gods leads to the acceptance of revenge and violence as acceptable ways of expressing feelings for humanity, leading people into sin as they choose to do so. Humanity cannot be faulted for these actions, as the gods created this cycle amongst themselves and allowed it to be established amongst the mortals as well. As is seen in with Uranus and Gaia, one sin leads another which leads to another. In this story, the cycle does not go beyond those two deities and Cronus, but the potential, as the cycle of revenge operates through time, gives the opportunity for it too. Sin is a natural response in all individuals in the world to various events, but, most especially, another sin. This makes it impossible for both god and human to avoid.   
The book of Genesis and its creation story reveal similar patterns about the nature of sin as those seen in the Theogony. However, in these stories, the singular God is viewed as a perfect being, free from sin himself, with sin originating in humans instead. God, the creator of a creation he sees as “very good,” wants the beings he creates in his image to follow him obediently. However, they soon demonstrate their lack of perfection by disobeying God and eating from the fruit of the tree of knowledge. Once outside the Garden, Cain, son of Adam and Eve, commits the first murder as he “rose up against his brother Abel and killed him” for receiving God’s favor instead of receiving it himself. God has mercy on Cain, but Cain fears other people will not, crying to God “‘…anyone who meets me may kill me.’” As with the Furies of Greek tradition, it is logical for Cain to fear retribution. While this is the first action of its kind, as described by Genesis, human nature’s tendency to sin, even without historical precedent highlights his fear. The desire for vengeance – for sin – illustrated by the Furies would drive others to act against him. Like in the Theogony, this is evidence for sin to be an inborn quality expected from all life. God does, however, grant Cain protection, despite it being further evidence against his ideal creation. As Cain further exemplifies humanity is not perfect and, as shown by the man and woman’s disobedience in the garden, never were perfect.  As such, the desire to sin is a trait shared by all of humanity from the beginning of time. 	
Further evidence of the inborn nature of sin, is the return to it soon after God destroys almost all of humanity for their evil deeds. God, realizing all of his creation has turned to wickedness, attempts to purge humanity of the sinful by flooding the earth and only allowing one man, Noah, and his family to survive (Gen. 6.1-6.19). In doing so, God hopes to reset humanity back into a more perfect version of itself, as he first had envisioned. Yet humanity quickly reverts to its old ways of sin, as evidenced by Ham, who committed the sin of “seeing the nakedness of his father.” Ham’s sin, for which he was cursed by his father, illustrates that despite God’s attempt to again eradicate wrongdoing from the world, humanity cannot follow such a command. Even though God chose the most righteous man in society to rebuild a new society, sin is not eliminated. This is greater evidence for humanity’s innate imperfection. As with Cain before, God learns again to accept humanity’s flaws and, this time, makes a covenant with Noah to never destroy civilization again. Through these events, it is evident that, while humanity failed to live up to their creator’s expectations, they are still accepted by him. In this way, it is made known that, even in the case of Adam and Eve and original sin, humanity has never been perfect. Rather, despite God’s wishes from the beginning of creation, people have always been fallible and subject to fall into sin. As such, there never was a fall of humanity, just a failure to live up to the unreasonable expectations God set. 
Though taking two different approaches to quantify God, both the Greek and Judeo-Christian tradition identify sin as a trait unavoidably present. In the former, it originates with the origin gods and in the latter, it begins with the first humans, created from a perfect God, but in each, the tendency to violate a perfect moral code is exemplified. Each tradition demonstrates life’s tendency to resort to violence and sin, especially when vengeance is in order. As sin tends to begat more sin, both traditions highlight the inevitably of sin and its presence since the beginning of time. Though the Judeo-Christian view sees a perfect God, humans are never perfect themselves. Even when granted an opportunity to remain sin-free, as in the case of the garden and of Noah and his children, sin manages to immediately present itself through the people. The same can be said of the Greek tradition, especially since the gods themselves are not perfect and exhibit behavior similar to that of any human. Both of these demonstrate the impossibility of perfection. 