A high quality sexuality education curriculum contains some of the most important information young women will ever receive. Yet, in the United States, sex ed programs are widely unregulated and vary on a school-to-school basis. Many of them fail to properly educate young women to make safe, well-informed decisions regarding their sexual health. Compared to most other industrialized nations, American women are at a significant disadvantage. To make matters worse, there is also a significant discrepancy between the quality of sex education program amongst American women based upon factors such as race and socio-economic status. In these cases, the system makes it even more difficult for already discriminated-against women to avoid negative life outcomes. When properly taught, however, sex education greatly increases women’s chances of achieving positive life outcomes. Thus, American policy regarding these programs must be drastically changed to not only ensure that the best programs are equivalent to those overseas, but also to guarantee that every young woman has access to a quality program, regardless of any other factor. 
Ensuring that the United States has a strong sex education curriculum in place is unquestionably important for women’s health in the country. Students oftentimes rely on adults, in particular parents and teachers, to teach them. Given their social position, it is therefore these parents’ and adults’ responsibilities to guarantee that the children and young adults are provided the necessary information to make informed decisions. Doing so in regards to sex education provides these students agency in making decisions regarding their sexuality and sexual health. While these hypothetical comprehensive programs would be useful for young men as well, they would be particularly important for young women. Foremost, they would ensure that all women receive medically accurate information about birth control methods, as well as teach them how to obtain it. Considering that as of 2001, about half of the pregnancies in the United States were unplanned , wider distribution of this information would provide women power in determining if and when they wanted to have children. By teaching this in schools, young women would be able to have this information as soon as it is relevant to them, while they would also be able to retain it for the rest of their lives. Other types of information that would be taught in a comprehensive sex ed program would have similar effects. Information about STI transmission could help women make better decisions about their sexuality, while discussions about anatomy could help women feel more comfortable and empowered by their body. If harassment and interpersonal violence were covered, women could be better prepared to identify and react to threatening situations. Finally, young men provided this information would be better informed about women’s health issues as well, which could have numerous benefits ranging from more open discussion about women’s health to an increased awareness amongst men about sexual harassment and violence, which would potentially decrease the number of incidents men perpetrate against women. Of course, a number of other factors play into each situation, but education alone creates better informed people who are prepared to make better decisions for their own well-being, as well as women’s health in general. 
Currently, sex education in the United States fails to educate students to anywhere near its potential. Policy currently gives states control over deciding what curriculum to mandate in public schools, if any curriculum is even mandated at all. According to data compiled by the Guttmacher Institute, an institution that focuses on "advancing sexual and reproductive health worldwide," only 22 states require that schools teach sex education at all. When it is taught in any of the states, 37 require that abstinence is at least covered and 26 of those require that it is stressed. In comparison, only 17 states require that contraception is covered. The federal government does maintain some control in funding these types of programs and has actually improved recently, as Heather Boonstra discusses in two separate pieces. In the first, from 2007, she explains how George W. Bush’s administration planned to allocate $204 million to be spent on abstinence-only education. Of the $204 million, $50 million was automatically given to the states, under Title V of the Social Security Act. If the states accepted, they then had to follow a strict abstinence-only program. While some did not, this still funded numerous abstinence-only programs around the country.  For the 2012 fiscal year, a budget was approved that gave $55 million towards abstinence-only programs, including the same $50 million automatically given to fund strict programs. However, $180 million was approved to fund medically accurate and age appropriate sex education programs that focused on both abstinence and contraception as well. While positive changes have been made, the debate between the sides continues today within the government. This makes it even more important to ensure that the best, most comprehensive plan possible is established. 
On the other end of the spectrum is the abstinence-only curriculum, which, despite ever-increasing evidence that shows it is ineffective, still has many supporters in the United States government. Much of this support stems from the idea that any adolescent sexual activity is high-risk and harmful to the young people participating, and is largely based in religious beliefs. Many studies have shown that abstinence-only education programs are entirely ineffective in encouraging young adults to not have sex. For example, the National Survey of Family Growth analyzed in the Journal of Adolescent Health demonstrated that after accounting for other factors such as race, age, and gender, adolescents who received abstinence-only sex education were just as likely to have engaged in vaginal intercourse as those who received no sex education. Likewise, these young adults were just as likely to report a pregnancy as those who did not receive any formal sex education. Danielle Leclair builds upon this with findings from a number of studies that all concluded the same thing: students who received an abstinence-only sex ed curriculum were not more likely to remain abstinent, but were less likely to use contraceptives when they did choose to have sex. Despite this information, the federal government still insists on spending $50 million a year on a program that clearly does not work. This is both a blatant waste of taxpayer money as well as a policy that leaves young women at greater risk for the negative life outcomes associated with early and unplanned pregnancy, as well as STI transmission. These reasons alone are enough to say abstinence-only programs should not be taught to young women, and they should especially not be government funded.  
As its name implies in relation to comprehensive sex education curriculums, abstinence-only programs leave out significant amounts of critical information. Not only are the programs ineffective at preventing pregnancy, but they also leave young women without enough information to consistently make healthy decision regarding their sexuality. This can be seen most clearly by the amount of information is left out surrounding contraceptive methods, but also critical information about things such as abortion, communication about sex, finding healthcare for sexual concerns, and sexual orientation. Though in some cases teachers supplemented an abstinence-only curriculum with some of this material , all of this material is critical for an adolescent girl to learn to have a full understanding of her sexuality and the control she has over it. Abstinence-only programs are also known to intentionally mislead young women by purposefully presenting false information to scare adolescents out of having sex.
Abstinence-only programs also tend to consider all women to be a homogenous population and treat all women the same as a result. This is especially true for homosexual women who are completely marginalized by an abstinence-only curriculum. Much of the abstinence-only curriculum focuses on the damage that sex outside of marriage can cause. Since same sex marriage is not legal in many states, abstinence only programs leave teens that are not straight to wonder if they even should have sex. This creates an atmosphere that ostracizes these individuals and builds upon the established heteronormative culture. In an interview, one homosexual male, Jose, described his thought-process going through an abstinence-only curriculum: "If you aren’t represented when they talk about human sexuality—you’re not human. You can’t be, because you’re not included." Likewise, many young women who did not identify as straight must have experienced similar isolation experiencing that curriculum. In some cases, the curriculum further creates a "climate of intolerance" by stating things such as "homosexual activity involves an especially high risk for AIDS" because it is an "unnatural activity" that creates "additional damage" to "blood vessels and other body parts." Instead of providing information and normalizing these groups’ experiences to help them better understand their identity, these programs often further exclude them. This kind of discrimination and intolerance should not be allowed to be taught, especially by government-funded programs.    
Unfortunately, replacing all abstinence-only curriculums with more comprehensive curriculums still would only go so far in creating a more effective sex education program. One other important factor is the lack of well-trained educators that have gone through training specifically to teach sex ed courses. In a survey of Illinois sex educators from 2004, only two-thirds of the teachers had received formal sex education training and half of the total educators had been teaching sex education for seven years or less. Of the trained teachers, 86 percent felt comfortable teaching sex education, compared to only 56 percent of the untrained teachers. These statistics emphasize the importance of formalizing the process of training teachers. Aside from just being more knowledgeable, the trained, comfortable teachers would definitely be a better resource for students as they are likely to be more open about a variety of important topics, even controversial ones. In fact, trained educators were 2.5 times more likely to teach a comprehensive program as opposed to a more minimal abstinence-only program and also taught a "significantly greater number of topics." In order to be have a successful sex education program nationwide, educators must be trained to guarantee that they will feel comfortable discussing all topics with students. If an educator only feels comfortable discussing abstinence, her students will learn little, regardless of the state or federal policy. By training educators, knowledge about and comfort discussing the topics will increase substantially, which will then be able to be passed down to all students if the right curriculum is also in place. 
Related to both curriculum used and amount of training given to teachers, as well as other factors, is the fact that young minority women and young women of low socio-economic status are much more likely to become pregnant as a teenager or contract an STI than their white middle class counterparts. Considering these groups’ social position, this is hardly a surprise, but does present another serious problem with the current system. While there are numerous factors at play that are difficult to untangle to figure out a direct causal relationship, it is clear that at least some of the blame for this discrepancy falls on the sexuality education system. According to research reported by Boonstra, while 66% of white teenages received information about birth control before first having sex, only 45% of Hispanic teens and 33% of black teens received the same. Likewise, 62% of teens whose families made greater than twice the poverty line received this education, while only 44% of teens below twice the poverty line did. Another study found that white teenage women had a birth rate of 27.6 per 1000 teens, black teenage women had a birth rate of 59.2 births per 1000 teens, and Hispanic teenage women had a birth rate of 96.1 births per 1000 teens. Amongst all these groups, birth rates increased as abstinence-only education increased, and abstinence-only education increased as the proportion of black teens to white teens increased. Finally, STI rates are seen to be correlated to ethnicity as well.. Combined, these are all alarming trends that must be remedied. To do so would be difficult, as each factor seems to go hand-in-hand with the others, making it tough to pick out the one most correlated with poor life-outcomes for adolescent women. It is, however, clear that quality sex education is not reaching all audiences equally and probably reaches the most vulnerable groups the least often. This leaves young black and Hispanic women, as well as all poorer women, without the agency to make well-informed decisions regarding their sexual health. Undoubtedly, this is at least one reason why birth rates and STI transmissions are substantially higher amongst minority groups. Lack of information that a proper sex ed course would provide would allow women to be more aware of the resources available to them in terms of birth control and STI prevention methods. With this knowledge, it is possible that some of disadvantages of living in those types of situations would be at least partially mitigated. While there are definitely other factors also in play, fixing sex education in these high risk areas where the problems are currently greatest might go a long way in starting to resolve some of them and would, at the very least, provide women much needed agency. 
To fix sex education in the United State and to guarantee that women will have the opportunity in school to learn the much-needed information it provides, significant changes to public policy are necessary. By starting to make these changes, it is hoped that the United States’ high teenage pregnancy rate will start to decrease to match other industrialized nations. A group of leading health organizations released a set of basic standards that the minimum comprehensive sex education curriculum should contain. It includes guidelines for grades K-12 and acknowledges seven key areas for learning, including anatomy, pregnancy and reproduction, healthy relationships, and identity. To cover these areas effectively, other changes must also be made. Currently, the median time spend on sex education is only 14 hours total between middle and high school. In order to fully develop these programs, significantly more time is needed to make sure that all the material is covered and later reviewed, to help it be better remembered. While not as explicitly sex-positive as some would hope, these standards appear to be good for an electorate that is strongly in favor of a comprehensive sexuality program, but still faces challenges from some conservative leaders. Results from the study described in the Journal of Adolescent Health determined that a "comprehensive sex education was associated with a 50% lower risk of teen pregnancy." This data did not adjust for which groups of people are more likely to receive comprehensive sex education, so the effect of implementing this plan is likely less significant than that, but it does still show that these policy changes alone could make a significant impact and would be a definite improvement over abstinence-only education. Policy changes must be made that make these standards or a close equivalent a requirement in all schools. 
In order for any proposed changes to actually be successful, however, appropriate resources must be distributed to all schools, not just those where current programs are relatively strong. Instead, all schools must adopt this minimum comprehensive sex education program for it to be as effective as it needs to be. The program must be in place in locations with high populations of poorer people and minorities, where sex ed is more frequently abstinence-only programs compared to more heavily white and middle class portions of the country. It is in these groups where the changes would be the most drastic and the outcomes for women would hopefully improve the most. Also, in order to ensure that this benefit is felt, training programs must be put in place to train all of the educators that will be leading these programs. As a comprehensive program covers much more information, the instructors may not be familiar with or comfortable discussing some of it. To make sure they are fully prepared to teach the students, rigorous training must be provided. Again, a focus must be placed on ensuring that the teachers in the poorer regions are given the same resources as those elsewhere to fully guarantee that the information makes it to the students who need it most. 
While sex education in the United States is currently lagging between other areas of the developed world, there does seem to be movement currently in the right direction. In order to fully develop a sex education program that informs and empowers young women on decisions that will improve their life outcomes, a policy change must dictate that comprehensive sex ed is required everywhere, with no exceptions for abstinence-only education. Abstinence-only has been proven over and over again to be an ineffective way to teach sex education and does not provide nearly enough information to give women power in terms of their sexual health. If a comprehensive plan were to be executed correctly and with enough training to educators and support for all areas of the country, this could be accomplished. With those changes made, the probability of positive life outcomes for women everywhere, regardless of race or socioeconomic status, will greatly increase. The theories about the evolution and development of human language are as diverse as the fields of study that attempt to piece together an answer to the question. Linguists, anthropologists, psychologists and professionals in various specialized fields of biology, from evolutionary biologists to neuroscientists to geneticists have all contributed to get as much of answer to the questions as possible. The theories from across the multitude of disciplines oftentimes contribute to parts of other theories, though at the moment little is definitely known. In this paper, I will first discuss some of the unavoidable problems inherent with trying to study this topic and then proceed to look at how the development and spread of language is connected to the Out-of-Africa hypothesis of human evolution. From there, I will examine thoughts on the anatomical changes thought to be necessary for the development of human language and the processes in which they may have evolved. Finally, this paper will examine some competing theories about whether this occurred with a single mutation or was a gradual change over time, ultimately proposing that a synthesis of some of the theories provides the best possible explanation based on current evidence.  
While it is possible (and will be explored later in this paper) to reasonably speculate about the evolution of the first developments of language as it came to exist in humans, there are many reasons why only pieces of the whole question can be explored. As Jenkins attributes to John Maynard Smith, "language is difficult because it leaves behind no fossils." Jenkins discusses and counters this by saying that there are still ways, such as studies of pidgins and creoles or language disorders, the development of language can still be studied. While this is true, it does limit the directions the studies can take. Lyle Campbell reviews this issue by specifically discussing how much languages change in relatively short periods of time. He claims that "by glottochronology, after about 14,000 years, nearly all of a language’s basic vocabulary will be replaced." Though he acknowledges that the methods of glottochronology may not be strongly supported, there is still strong evidence that languages change relatively quickly. Since language must be at least 40,000 years old, possibly older, with the reasons addressed later in this paper, it is impossible to find how languages that split before that point relate to one another, at least by common etymologies, as some linguists try to argue. Campbell uses this point to illustrate the impossibility of trying to use present-day languages to try to construct a method by which all languages relate to a "proto-world" language – the first language. Thus, he emphasizes, nothing can be learned about the first language from the language extant today. By this reasoning, little can be learned about the origin of language from a linguistic perspective.  
Despite the issues presented by Campbell, Quentin Atkinson attempted to trace the spread of language of using the concept of phonemes – the smallest unit of sound in a word – and a model of the Out-of-Africa hypothesis where small groups of humans initially populated new areas, creating a founder effect. Smaller populations correlate to a smaller base of phonemes, implying that with each subsequent founder effect, the number of phonemes decreases. As populations develop farther away from the place of the origin of language, they are then expected to have fewer phonemes. 
As it is widely accepted that humans migrated out of Africa within the past 100,000 years  and thought that spoken language only evolved once, it is thought that the development of language must have developed before that migration. Atkinson suggests that it may even be the case that the development of language was the key that allowed modern humans to spread across the world. As evidence of this theory, Atkinson tested phonemic diversity from across the world and found that languages from Africa have the highest level. After accounting for population size, Atkinson’s regression on the distance from the proposed origin of language accounts for 19% of the variance in phonemic diversity. Atkinson finds that "the single major cline in phonemic diversity is consistent with a linguistic founder effect operating….from a most likely origin in Africa…  is congruent with similar analyses of human genetic and phenotypic diversity." 
Atkinson’s data also finds that the region with the most phoneme diversity after Africa is Southeast Asia. He suggests that this means that the populations in these areas grew the most rapidly after the exodus from Africa, which would have limited the bottleneck effect and allowed for the most time to recover phoneme diversity. Alternatively, a recent study suggests that migration from Africa initially headed east, reaching Malayasia as early as 60,000 ago before groups from the East, rather than Africa, migrated back towards Mediterrean and subsequently Europe, which also supports Atkinson’s findings. 
In order to develop language, two independent processes must have evolved to make its development possible. Humans had to both develop the ability to speak a vocal language as well as the, as Noam Chomsky describes, "capacity to deal with discrete infinities through recursive rules", which will be discussed in the next section of this paper. The time period of the development of the important elements in the human vocal track is currently debated, as competing studies have each reached a separate conclusion as to whether Neanderthals and other hominids had the same structure. In fact, much of the important elements for speech are selected for a different function: eating. While it is known that the fully modern vocal tract was not developed until about 50,000 years ago, as evidenced by the discovery of a Middle Pleistocene fossil that did not have a 1:1 ratio of length of horizontal oral cavity to vertical pharyngeal cavity that modern humans have that allows for the vowel sounds of i, u, and a.
However, before this time, there must have still been some speech important to the survival of individuals. This is attributed to the fact that humans would not have developed and maintained the supralaryngeal vocal tract currently present because it significantly increases the risk of choking to death. The increased deaths from the presence of this trait must have had a selection advantage because of its usefulness in speech. More evidence of speech occurring before the development of modern humans is the fact that, while not present in other nonhuman primates or even Homo ergaster, both humans and Neanderthals developed a larger thoracic region of the spinal cords. This development is attributed to the fact that breathing during speech requires extra muscles of the thorax and abdomen, suggesting Neanderthals also had some abilities for speech. 
While not as specialized as humans, Lieberman suggests that chimpanzees’ vocal tract is sufficient for vocal language. Despite this, chimpanzees still cannot talk, even though they vary their calls in ways that are similar to the way human speech conveys different words. This suggests another piece of the developmental pattern for speech: proper neural circuits. 
Also important for the development of language are strong neural capabilities that connect different regions of the brain and allow for abstract thought. Corballis claims that "articulate speech required radical change in the neural control of vocalization." In humans, this development has been enhanced by a "separated neocortical system" that synapses "directly with the brainstem nuclei for the vocal cords and tongue." Some primates have developed call systems that also are governed by neural mechanisms rather than sub cortical structures, such as vervet monkeys which have a complex system of calls used to share information about nearby predators.
The difference between humans and primates is still immense, however. Humans have developed a complex system of neural connections that divide functionality between the left and right hemispheres of the brain. While some research suggests other primates have developed similar systems, they remain much less complex. For example, in humans "substantial portions of neocortex on the lateral convexity of the cerebrum are critical to speech production and  comprehension, whereas  homologous regions in  the  monkey  brain  apparently  do  not  play  a  significant  role  in  either  learned  or spontaneous phonation." 
To complete the connection between the development of these critical neural connections and the development of language, a corresponding change in the genome of humans must also be identified. Evidence suggests that this crucial gene is the FOXP2 gene, which is present and highly conserved in all mammals. Its fundamental role in humans can currently be seen by an extended family in England, known as the KE family, in which about half of the members are affected by a speech and language disorder that effects a child’s first attempts to speak and persists through adulthood. The disorder, which has been traced to a point mutation on the FOXP2 gene, causes under activation of certain areas of the brain related to the neural circuits required for language. The family members with the disorder "are unable to protrude their tongues while closing their lips…have difficulty repeating two-word sequences  have signiﬁcantly lower scores on standardized intelligence tests than their nonafﬂicted siblings.." 
While the human gene differs in only 3 places from that of a mouse, two out of the three changes have occurred since the human lineage has split from chimpanzees, with one critical mutation thought to have occurred less than 100,000 years ago.. Lieberman claims that it is "clearly implicated in the formation of neural circuits that regulate human cognitive and motor capacities." He suggests that mutations acting on it would have "enabled rapid, coded speech" which would have enhanced the selection of the traits that allowed for a complete human vocal tract, as previously discussed.  
There exist competing theories about the idea of the ability for language as occurring with a single mutation, such as the FOXP2 gene, or if the process was more gradual. Crow argues that because evidence of representational ability only goes back 50,000 years, it is a trait specific to humans and possibility the defining trait of humans.. He argues that a gradual process could not account for an entirely novel process such as language, which causes him to define the mutation that allowed for the development of language as the speciation event that created modern humans. Chomsky suggests that a single mutation that caused a rewiring of the brain to allow for "capacities for complex thought, planning, interpretation, and so on" which then spread to the population due to obvious selection advantages. Building on this way of thinking, Berwick clarifies that this complex, rational thought was initially internal but eventually became connected to the sensory motor system, which then allowed for the development of language.  
Corballis exists on the other side of the argument. He suggests that since the anatomical structures that evolved for speech are so complex, that they could not have evolved suddenly along with the mutation Chomsky necessary for complex thought. Rather, they must also have been selected for and evolved to the point were things such as the vocal tract reached the complexity it did at the time it did. Instead, Corballis argues that language first developed as gestures and facial expressions, which would explain why primates are much better at picking up on sign languages than they are at learning vocal ones. This argument is supported by the discovery of a "mirror system" in the primate brain where the same neurons fire when an individual either sees a gesture or make the gesture itself. As this region is thought to be homologous to the Braca’s region in humans – an area important for speech – it intuitively follows that speech could have evolved from a gesture-based system. Likewise, Leiberman points out that the reason human abilities appear so distinct is that the intermediate forms with intermediate abilities, such as Neanderthals, have gone extinct. Steklis proposes that the history of human speech dates back to the earliest hominids, who he argues communicated in a similar manner to great apes today. Corballis summarizes these viewpoints, arguing that perhaps "grammatical language evolved relatively slowly…and that the late-comer was not language itself, but rather speech." 
The idea of the origin of language is a complex and involves many different fields in its study. It requires the certain anatomic structures to evolve, as well as a capacity for complex thought and the neural connections required to make and vocalize these. Complicating the issue is the confusion surrounding the idea of consciousness, the question of its necessity for language, and how communication could occur before the vocal structures required for modern, spoken language were in place. The study of languages, though impossible to directly relate to one another, have provided a reasonable model for the migration of humans and have supported spoken language’s development in Africa sometime between 50,000-100,000 years ago.The paper begins by introducing the topic that obligate bacteria (bacteria living within hosts) have a smaller genome than free-living bacteria. It proceeds by explaining the mutualistic relationship endosymbiotic bacteria can have with their hosts. From there, a specific structure in bacteria – the flagellum – is discussed in relation to how its presence varies and genes change between obligate and free-range bacterium and why that is the case. Next, the paper discusses ways in which bacterial genomes can change in size, focusing on insertion, deletion, and horizontal gene transfer. Then, the paper addresses that symbiotic bacteria mutate more quickly, potentially losing DNA repair mechanisms, which subsequently leads to a greatly reduced genome. Finally, the paper discusses that the only part of the genome favored to remain in obligate bacteria are parts necessary for replication and parts that maintain the mutualism between the bacteria and the host. 
The paper’s introductory paragraph accurately sums up what the rest of the paper talks about. However, the approach the paper is going to take towards this topic isn’t made clear in the intro, which makes it take some time into the paper to figure exactly what it’s trying to do. The first body paragraph contributes to this confusion as well. While it discusses the benefits of the symbiotic bacteria for the host, and does so effectively, a large section of the paragraph gets off topic in discussing the specifics of how the human immune system works. This distracts from the main point of the paper and, especially since it’s at the beginning of the paper, confuses the reader about what the paper is actually about. Also in this section, it might be beneficial to discuss some of the cited research in more depth. This is done for most of the relevant research in other sections of the paper and doing something similar here would also be helpful. A common theme throughout the paper is the lack of citations in places where they seem necessary. In this paragraph, a citation is needed for the information given about the Rhizobium species of bacteria, and especially in reference to their genome being smaller than non-symbiotic bacteria’s genome. 
The second body paragraph is the paper’s strongest. While it suffers from a few grammatical errors (which will be discussed later), it otherwise is a very strong argument for what you are trying to prove at this point in the paper. It covers the relevant research with depth and describes how this is relevant to why the genome of the symbiotic bacteria shrunk. The discussion of the flagella in both symbiotic and non-symbiotic bacteria accomplishes a similar purpose with a good deal of success as well. However, the paragraph that discusses the change in the genes related to the flagella could be made clearer. In particular, an explanation for how these changes still shrunk the genome would be useful, as well as potentially an explanation about what the genes’ functions were after they changed or something along those lines. 
The second half of the paper after that last paragraph feels a bit isolated from the first half and lacks the necessary transitions for the reader to figure out exactly what the paper is trying to do at the time of the switch. The paper goes from describing specific examples of shrinking of symbiotic bacteria genomes to ways in which any general genome size can change. While eventually the connection between these two parts are made, it takes too long for this to occur and it leaves the reader confused as to the purpose of the paragraphs on deletions, insertions, and horizontal gene transfer as they relate specifically. Also, the paragraph on horizontal gene transfer needs a citation. 
The second to last body paragraph on the restrictions the host plays on the number of endosymbionts in its body contains relevant information and is useful to the argument being made, but it feels out of place and could use some more details to flesh it out into a full paragraph. Likewise, the concept covered in the last body paragraph about the retention of genes essential to the mutualism between the host and the endosymbiont is an essential concept that could be used as more of a counter-example to some of the other research and used more as a limitation of what the other research suggests. While done to a degree, the information in this paragraph could be expanded on significantly, especially due to its importance.
Overall, the paper successfully discusses the topic it sets out to cover, but some issues detract from how easy this is to see. One of the issues present in many paragraphs is a style of writing that detracts from the purpose of the paper. The tone is at times too informal and that the relationship between the first half and the second half of the paper is not explicitly explained with helpful transitions makes the paper tough to follow as the switch occurs. The paper covers relevant information related to the topic but could more explicitly define research trends, especially by directly comparing the information on the tetse fly in the last paragraph with some of the other research. 
There are a few issues in this paper that, if corrected, would make it much more effective at accomplishing its purpose. First of all, as I discussed above, the two halves of the paper are lacking a smooth transition. While the information in the second half (insertion/deletion, mutations that help deletions in the genome, etc) is relevant for the information in the first half, this relationship is not explicitly defined and the transition is confusing. With the addition of the final body paragraph on the tetse fly, which relates more to the first half of the paper, this issue is complicated even more. Rearranging the paragraphs so the discussion on the reasons for a decreased genome comes before any of the specific examples might be helpful, especially if these are discussed throughout the subsequent discussion on the specific examples of the endosymbiotic bacteria, such as Buchnera and the bacteria with flagella. Related to this, a contrast of the data related to these species with the data related to the endosymbiotic bacteria of tetse fly would also be useful. 
Also, the first body paragraph has a style of writing that gets choppy and difficult to read. It is littered with short, choppy sentences that don’t flow from one sentence to the next. This portion of the paper is the only place where it is a noticeable issue and if this is corrected to sound more like the rest of the paper, it is not an issue. 
Throughout the paper, the tone consistently sounds informal with word choice that backs this up. For example, contractions such as “doesn’t” are used frequently when “does not” would be a more preferred option. Also, adjectives, such as “big” and “very”, and transitions such as “in the mean time,” are used at places when more formal wording would improve the tone of the paper. 	
The other major issue in this paper is the grammatical errors seen throughout. The lack of articles (a, an, the) before nouns is a common error seen in many places throughout the paper and should be double-checked for during revision. The other major error occurs with commas used in places they should not be used and commas missing in places where they are needed. Again, this occurs in many places throughout the paper and a double-check of these errors would be useful for a final draft of the paper. Other than that, the only other errors caught in the paper was that an author of one of the papers cited changed from “Macnab” in one place to “Macnaba” in other place and the misspelling of “Salmonella” as “Slamonella.”  
Modernity is often defined by the presence of quantification in everyday life. Likewise, the modernity of certain sports can be largely defined by the amount of quantification each sports culture has surrounding it. The more rooted in numbers a game is, the more modern it is. In the case of the most popular team sports around the world, two particularly stand out as extremes in individual quantification. On one side, baseball developed a system of quantification very early in its history and has continued to expand to this day, with the advent of sabermetrics. Soccer, on the other extreme of the popular global team sports, has failed to develop any kind of popular statistical measurements other than the amount of goals an individual has scored. For the sake of comparison, basketball, which fits closer to the middle of both extremes, provides a good example of what most other sports resemble in terms of quantification. This paper will first identify baseball as the sport best suited for quantification by means of its unique characteristic as an individual’s game. It will then compare basketball and soccer’s traits that produced vastly different outcomes in terms of ability to be quantified. It will then discuss each sport’s progress towards the use of advanced statistics to better quantify an individual’s performance, comparing each sport’s development of advanced stats to how well the traits inherent to each game allowed for quantification from each game’s beginning. Through this process, it will be clear that the way a game is structured is the main determining factor in the development of quantification in a sport, ultimately determining how quickly the sport is able to develop advanced statistics and thus become a modern entity. 
Baseball quickly developed ways to quantify what spectators were watching and provided the base for statistical judgments in sports. This was largely due to its nature as an individual sport disguised as a team sport. Because the idea of the game was a matchup between a batter and a pitched competing directly against only each other, one battle at a time, success or failure of either individual was easily determinable. This spawned the idea of the batting average, introduced soon after the game was professionalized and allowed for spectators and players alike to know exactly how successful an individual was performing. Not long after, more stats, such as RBI, home runs and wins and losses were introduced, again adding tangible results for each pitcher-batter interaction. As a result, spectators were able to get a clear idea of what an individual player contributed to the team. Later, with the advent of sabermetrics, exact numbers of a player’s contribution and value became calculable, using these basic stats as a springboard. Due to its individualist nature, baseball provided a game perfect for quantification, giving it a head start towards modernity. 
On the other hand, soccer and basketball are both team-oriented games that required cooperation and reliance on other players for both the team and individuals to be successful. Clearly, this hurts both games in attempting to determine the skills of an individual independent of his teammates. In basketball, however, this was somewhat mitigated by the fact that the game has many quantifiable outcomes – made baskets, assists, blocks, and rebounds, to name a few – which can be accumulated many times over the course of a game. Soccer, known as the "simplest game," did not have anything like this, with large portions of the game being passes between teammates without a clear indication if any singular pass – aside from not limiting the other team’s chances – has any impact on a team’s chances of winning the game. Due to its slow pace in comparison to basketball, few stats could be easily recorded. Since both basketball and soccer are so heavily team-oriented, observation is crucial in determining how talented a player is compared to his teammates and the opposition. Still, since basketball games score at a much higher pace, it is possible to acquire a decent idea of who the main contributors in a basketball game were by virtue of the stat sheet, whereas the same would be impossible in soccer. Ultimately, as it was from the start, basketball was in a decent position to be quantified more precisely, with soccer having almost no base for any kind of object quantification off which to build. While both could not match baseball and its inherent focus on individuals, basketball remained substantially ahead of soccer. 
As time progressed, baseball began another process that definitely pushed it the rest of the way into modernity and allowed for much greater and much more accurate quantification of individuals. Its leap forward began with the sabermetric revolution, lead by Bill James, in which statistics were used to quantify exactly how much value an individual added to his team. James favored the use of on-base percentage over the traditional batting average and strikeout-to-walk ratio over win-loss record, as he acknowledged that these statistics were a better measure of what an individual player contributed to a team. Eventually, players were able to be quantified by single number values, with the development of statistic groups such as defense-independent pitching statistics (DIPS), which quantifies a pitchers’ success independent of his defense and is one of the most accurate predictors of future success. The ability to quantify games in such a manner allows for baseball teams to find players best suited for success outside of their current team by determining exactly what role the individual can play on a team. Initially brought into mainstream baseball culture as a way to give an advantage to the smaller-market teams without having to match the spending of the bigger clubs, the strategy is now used by every team in MLB. This ability to quantify has brought the game fully into the modern age. It allows for teams to accurately assess a player’s value and brings structure to any debate over the skills of any two players that cannot be found in any other sport. While attempts have been made to follow baseball’s lead, none have found the same level of success as sabermetrics has, as no other sport has the same history of statistics like baseball had. 
Basketball and soccer have both made attempts at quantifying their games to similar degrees as baseball has, but both have found it more difficult at having actual success. With basketball having a better foundation to work from, it has still improved its standing as a modern game much more than soccer has, focusing itself on tempo-free statistics, which look to compare players by removing the effects of a different amounts of playing time. One of the most famous and most popular basketball statisticians is ESPN’s John Hollinger, who devised the formula for Player Effiency Rating (PER), based on these concepts. His formula is build off adjusting traditional stats, such as points, blocks, and rebounds, and turning them into a singular number to show a player’s complete value. Still, as basketball is a team game, it remains tough to completely determine how much an individual’s performance impacts the rest of the players on the court and how to specifically quantify what is and is not important. While PER as one of the many ways progress is being made, it still fails to take into account a player’s actions without the ball, still leaving significant portions of the game unable to be quantified. Basketball certainly has made strides in improving its ability to judge individuals solely on their performance, but even then, human analysis of the data is required and it must be judged to see if it seems viable to account for its inability to cover all aspects. Unlike baseball, the game cannot entirely be turned to into numbers, thus leaving it beyond it in terms of modernity. Advanced statistics still provide aid in making informed decisions in the NBA, but are not as widely trusted as sabermetrics. This use, however, does leave the sport ahead of soccer, where advanced stats are still in their development stage, leaving the game behind in terms of its modernity. 
Soccer has struggled in attaining any kind of statistics over the course of its history and has just recently even attempted to create statistical measures to judge players. One of the first ways numerical judgments were brought to soccer was "player ratings," which were first introduced by Match, an English soccer magazine, in the 1970s. This ranking system, which is widely used today, relies on certain observers – generally writers or journalists – to watch the game and give each player a rating from 1-10 based on how they think each player performs. While adding numbers to the game, this system fails to do what sabermetrics does and the advanced basketball stats attempt to do. Rather than give an objective evaluation of on-field action, the player ratings just assign an arbitrary value to a player’s game in a highly subjective and unscientific manner. While helping guide fans’ opinions about players, it fails to quantitatively summarize a player’s actions with hard evidence like stats such as PER do.  Recently some soccer clubs, in an attempt to gain a competitive advantage, have tried to develop objective statistics by hiring firms to use sophisticated technology to track many different aspects of the game. Companies such as Opta and Match Analysis use teams of workers to "watch a live feed of a soccer game and chart every distinct action," resulting in as many as 2,500 distinct actions coded per game. The results from these technologies allow for stats such as "individual player touches, number of passes and to whom, and number of balls won and lost." These numbers have the ability to form the backbone of complex individual statistics, similar to how stats like rebounds and assists form the backbone of PER, but currently have not led to any significant breakthroughs. This leaves soccer in a position where it may be able to approach the level of modernity that basketball has currently reached in terms of its quantification. Like basketball, it is a complex game where teammate interactions and spontaneity play the greatest role in generating an offensive attack. With more players on the field and much less scoring, soccer has been much tougher to actually quantify, but with revolutionary technologies, it, like basketball has achieved to a degree, will likely be able to determine how much of an impact a player has on his team’s success. Given the financial benefits and competitive advantages teams that first figure out accurate statistical models have, it is only a matter of time before soccer makes significant steps in its process of modernizing its methods of quantification. 
Baseball, basketball, and soccer each represent a different stage of modernity through quantification. Baseball, which has always lent itself to statistical quantification, currently leads the way in its ability to clearly determine an individual’s contribution to a team. As a sport composed of individual matchups, it lent itself to individual statistics and was thus able to be quantified easier than the more team-oriented games of basketball and soccer. As both games rely heavily on a collective effort, individual contributions to the team have been more difficult to parse out. However, basketball has succeeded where soccer has not yet been able to, making it a more modern game in terms of its ability to be quantified. Overall, these three games represent different approaches to modernization through quantification of individuals. Each game’s unique structure has lead it to where it currently stands in its ability to quantify, though it is clear for each, the goal remains to continue to do so as much as possible. By doing so, teams gain a better understanding of what makes players successful and allows them to make more informed decisions on who to acquire and the price to pay for a player’s services. Thus, in quantification comes modernization, which leads to more rational decision making, supported by the statistical prowess of each sport. 
Over the course of the twentieth century, soccer grew into the most popular sport around the globe, yet during the same time, failed to do the same in the United States. In the U.S., it has remained marginalized, followed only by segments of the population, failing to reach hegemonic status as in Europe, Central and South America, and many other regions around the world. The reasons for this are numerous, though mainly have to do with the strong influence the game has outside the United States, which made it a less appealing game during the formative years of the American sports space. In this paper, I will examine how the game was identified as a British game from its roots, how the majority of its American audience and participants were immigrants, and how the game’s authority lied outside of the United States in FIFA. Through this progression, it will be clear that the main reason for soccer’s lack of success was due to its identity as "non-American" and its inability to become so. 
Since its main fourteen laws were established in England in 1860s, soccer – or, as it’s known in England, football – has always been identified as a British game. Upon its introduction in the United States shortly afterwards, soccer retained its British identity, presenting its first challenge in attaining a following in the United States. During a time when Americans were keen on establishing their own culture identity, this presented a hindrance to the game’s ability to establish a significant following. Unlike baseball, which separated itself from the English versions of similar games aided by the Doubleday creation myth used to establish its American-ness, soccer was clearly a game with a significant international influence and following. With this burden and during a time period in which the New York Times "urged Americans to develop their own analogous yet original activities that would be appropriate to American life and experience," the deck was stacked against anything with non-American origins. Thus, the ability for soccer to succeed was limited from the beginnings of its introduction in the United States. 
Soccer was also harmed by the facts that, of the people in the country that took up the sport, many were immigrants or came from recently immigrated families. Team affiliations and names referenced a particular cultural identity, such as Brooklyn Celtics, Anglo-Saxon F.C., and Spanish-American F.C. While players did not have to be of the particular ethnicity to play on a specific team and many were American-born, the names showed the game to have an ethnic identity apart from mainstream American culture. Rather, the game was popular among immigrant groups as a way of maintaining a strong connection to the country from which each group emigrated. Ultimately this classification further isolated soccer from the American public, where anti-immigrant beliefs were still widely held. With other more popular and more clearly American sports able to be played, soccer maintained an existence outside of the average American’s consciousness. 
Finally, since soccer is controlled by the international organization of FIFA, the game was further shown to be without sufficient American influence. Early in soccer’s history, when a dispute broke out between the AFA and the AAFA – two American soccer organizations striving for legitimacy – the two were told by FIFA to combine to form one soccer governing body in the United States that answered directly to FIFA. This indicated to the public that the game was clearly un-American and that its success elsewhere was just as important as it was in the United States. Also, it prevented changes to the rules and culture of soccer that may have been able to Americanize the game to help it better appeal to the masses. For example, when the ASL – the first viable professional league in the U.S. – attempted to stop its teams from playing for an American challenge cup in 1928, FIFA excommunicated the league for disobeying its orders. While the league was attempting to do what was in its and American soccer’s best interest, it broke FIFA’s established code, which ultimately lead to its demise. Though the league’s decision may have helped it grow into the American sports space, FIFA, without the same context and knowledge of the situation got involved to maintain their power. The effects of this were two-fold. First, it prevented Americanization of the game which may have been able to draw more interest to the game and second, it displayed that foreigners were in control of the game, even in localized disputes. Together these were even enough to turn off many Americans who had taken interest in soccer and severely hindered its growth in the United States for decades. 
Soccer’s lack of success in the United States for much of its history can be directly attributed to its characterization as a foreign game. At its inception in the country, its popularity was limited by the contrast between its British history and American attempts to establish a separate cultural identity. When it did begin to grow, many players were immigrants, using soccer as a way to remain connected to their country of origin, again giving most Americans a reason to ignore it. Once more Americans did begin to catch on, FIFA established its dominance over the game’s domestic influence, again turning away fans that were forced to reconcile with the fact that the Americans had no power over the game’s legislation. Ultimately, this sequence of events made it difficult for soccer to establish significant, stable popularity in the United States, despite its ability to do so in a majority of countries around the world. 
Soccer’s proliferation into the European continent was quick and complete after its formal establishment in England, though it was met with strong resistance in many places before it became wholly accepted by the culture of each nation. In the case of Germany, where it faced the heaviest resistance, nationalistic pride and different beliefs about how people should remain physically fit impeded soccer’s ability to succeed for some time. Ultimately though, it was able to become hegemonic across all of Europe. This essay will break down Germany’s resistance to the game due to its affinity for gymnastics, progress into discussing the game’s presence due to the overwhelming influence of English economic endeavors, and explain how this along with the games simplicity made it possible for soccer to turn into its own source of nationalistic pride, despite its foreign origins. Through this, it will be clear that authorities do not have complete control over whether a game gains popularity. Certain aspects of a game and the environment it exists in can help overcome strong resistances and once the game transcends authority to become culturally hegemonic, the authority, rather than fighting it, will adapt and use the popularity to best suit its purposes.  
The German disdain for soccer at its outset was two-fold, both relating to the German ideals of "turnen" – gymnastics – as culturally hegemonic. First, gymnastics was a source of nationalistic pride for Germans, established by Friedrich Ludwig Jahn in an attempt to reestablish national strength after their defeat at the hands of Napoleon. Soccer then presented the opposite – an invading foreign cultural force that attempted to overtake the strictly German gymnastics role in society. By allowing soccer a place in German culture, nationalists believed too much power was being transferred away from German identity and put into foreign hands.
Also of importance was gymnastics place in German society as a form of exercise and personal development.  As gymnastics came to be viewed as a "holistic construct designed to enhance body and spirit," any threat to gymnastics popularity was a seen as a threat to the fitness of the German people.  Since soccer presented that threat, it was argued that it had to be prevented from further expanding into German society. It was even argued to be linked to the "English disease" of infant spine inflammation, a thesis postulated to scare Germans away from the sport while identifying with the game’s health risks compared to the established benefits of gymnastics. 
By the turn of the twentieth century, however, soccer managed to overcome the forces fighting against its dissemination, growing out of the increased presences of the English in Germany. English businessmen traveling into country continued to bring the game with them, establishing a local presence in many of the mining and steel towns. As more Englishmen traveled to Germany and then as more Germans traveled to England, the game was brought back and forth overseas and introduced by multitudes of people. Since English culture was overwhelmingly present, the game was given many chances to catch on, which it took advantage of by doing so.  
The inherent nature of soccer as "the simplest game" also aided its ability to grow into popularity. Rather than follow have any complex rules like most other sports, soccer makes its goal apparent to even the most untrained eye. Instead of having to take the time to learn the rules, anyone can pick up on the fundamental basis of the game – score more goals than the opponent – and instead begin to learn to play right away. This characteristic of soccer made it easily transferable, even across language barriers and allowed it to gain popularity quickly. After its introduction into Germany, it did just that, as people from across the middle class begin to play, which quickly allowed the game to disseminate to the lower class and give it a national following.  
Ultimately, as soccer became increasingly popular, German authorities used it to become its own kind of nationalism. Upon realizing that the popularity of soccer could not be quelled, Germans attempted to make the game their own instead of letting it become a symbol of English culture. For example, the DFB – German’s soccer authority – set up translation boards that translated all soccer terms into German rather than having to use English terms to reference the game. Eventually, the game evolved into one of the biggest representatives of German nationalism, bringing together all of Germany in its following. 
Soccer, despite its resistance from the German cultural authorities, managed to grow quickly into Germany’s biggest sport. The resistance proved to only be a slight hindrance when compared to the strength of the English cultural presence in Germany in the late 1800s. Since soccer was such an easy game to learn, this made it easily transferable, thus encouraging the growth of the game. Once established, authorities realized they could not successfully fight it and rather than discouraging the play of soccer, they transformed the game into one of German influence in the country and turned it into a source of cultural pride and nationalism. Creation stories are essential in forming the core of a religion’s belief system, introducing basic information about the main tenets of the religion. Both Hesiod’s Theogony and the book of Genesis tell of the creation in Greek mythology and the Judeo-Christian tradition, respectively. Both tell of the history of the world from its initial creation to the beginning of history and beyond. In the process, both share important insights about the origins of sin and the history of acts of evil. In fact, each text attempts to pinpoint the first sinner in history, but rather, in the process of explaining the acts of each and the rest of the world’s response to it, demonstrates that the will to sin and commit violence is an inherent trait forever ingrained in the human psyche. The act of sinning, therefore, is the result of an imperfect creation and demonstrates the fallibility of humans, rather than any fall from perfection. 
In the Theogony, imperfection is demonstrated through the actions of the original sinners – the gods of creation. The blame of original sin is cast upon Uranus – the sky – for suppressing his children deep within the earth – Gaia – who was the children’s mother. Uranus “rejoiced in his evildoing”, citing the first example of an innate desire to protect oneself at the expense of others. In response, Gaia “develop[ed] a scheme both cunning and wicked,” displaying her own ability to sin. Though she later convinces her son, Cronus, to harm his father by explaining to him that “[Uranus] was the first to conceive of disgraceful and criminal conduct,” she plays a near equal role to that of Uranus in the act of original sin. Technically, Gaia’s actions are in response to Uranus’s, but, by developing her “wicked scheme,” she is not free from blame herself. By responding to treachery with more treachery and deceit, Gaia demonstrates that she is just as apt to sin as the being she claims is the first evildoer. This reveals that the desire to commit deceit for personal gain is a trait common to all beings in this story of creation. Though there is technically a being that sinned first, the story demonstrates that all life is capable – and will – commit sin. As these beings are gods, founders of all life, it also reveals that the lesser mortals – humans – are also created with imperfection and therefore bound to follow similar behavioral patterns. 
Humanity’s link to the sin of the original sin of the god in Greek mythology is established with the birth of the Furies, deities which seek and encourage revenge and, by extension, sin. Born of Gaia after she “accepted/All of the blood drops” from the castration of Uranus, that she arranges Cronus to complete. This result directly ties the gods’ actions with those that humans will later take part in. The sin of the of the gods leads to the acceptance of revenge and violence as acceptable ways of expressing feelings for humanity, leading people into sin as they choose to do so. Humanity cannot be faulted for these actions, as the gods created this cycle amongst themselves and allowed it to be established amongst the mortals as well. As is seen in with Uranus and Gaia, one sin leads another which leads to another. In this story, the cycle does not go beyond those two deities and Cronus, but the potential, as the cycle of revenge operates through time, gives the opportunity for it too. Sin is a natural response in all individuals in the world to various events, but, most especially, another sin. This makes it impossible for both god and human to avoid.   
The book of Genesis and its creation story reveal similar patterns about the nature of sin as those seen in the Theogony. However, in these stories, the singular God is viewed as a perfect being, free from sin himself, with sin originating in humans instead. God, the creator of a creation he sees as “very good,” wants the beings he creates in his image to follow him obediently. However, they soon demonstrate their lack of perfection by disobeying God and eating from the fruit of the tree of knowledge. Once outside the Garden, Cain, son of Adam and Eve, commits the first murder as he “rose up against his brother Abel and killed him” for receiving God’s favor instead of receiving it himself. God has mercy on Cain, but Cain fears other people will not, crying to God “‘…anyone who meets me may kill me.’” As with the Furies of Greek tradition, it is logical for Cain to fear retribution. While this is the first action of its kind, as described by Genesis, human nature’s tendency to sin, even without historical precedent highlights his fear. The desire for vengeance – for sin – illustrated by the Furies would drive others to act against him. Like in the Theogony, this is evidence for sin to be an inborn quality expected from all life. God does, however, grant Cain protection, despite it being further evidence against his ideal creation. As Cain further exemplifies humanity is not perfect and, as shown by the man and woman’s disobedience in the garden, never were perfect.  As such, the desire to sin is a trait shared by all of humanity from the beginning of time. 	
Further evidence of the inborn nature of sin, is the return to it soon after God destroys almost all of humanity for their evil deeds. God, realizing all of his creation has turned to wickedness, attempts to purge humanity of the sinful by flooding the earth and only allowing one man, Noah, and his family to survive (Gen. 6.1-6.19). In doing so, God hopes to reset humanity back into a more perfect version of itself, as he first had envisioned. Yet humanity quickly reverts to its old ways of sin, as evidenced by Ham, who committed the sin of “seeing the nakedness of his father.” Ham’s sin, for which he was cursed by his father, illustrates that despite God’s attempt to again eradicate wrongdoing from the world, humanity cannot follow such a command. Even though God chose the most righteous man in society to rebuild a new society, sin is not eliminated. This is greater evidence for humanity’s innate imperfection. As with Cain before, God learns again to accept humanity’s flaws and, this time, makes a covenant with Noah to never destroy civilization again. Through these events, it is evident that, while humanity failed to live up to their creator’s expectations, they are still accepted by him. In this way, it is made known that, even in the case of Adam and Eve and original sin, humanity has never been perfect. Rather, despite God’s wishes from the beginning of creation, people have always been fallible and subject to fall into sin. As such, there never was a fall of humanity, just a failure to live up to the unreasonable expectations God set. 
Though taking two different approaches to quantify God, both the Greek and Judeo-Christian tradition identify sin as a trait unavoidably present. In the former, it originates with the origin gods and in the latter, it begins with the first humans, created from a perfect God, but in each, the tendency to violate a perfect moral code is exemplified. Each tradition demonstrates life’s tendency to resort to violence and sin, especially when vengeance is in order. As sin tends to begat more sin, both traditions highlight the inevitably of sin and its presence since the beginning of time. Though the Judeo-Christian view sees a perfect God, humans are never perfect themselves. Even when granted an opportunity to remain sin-free, as in the case of the garden and of Noah and his children, sin manages to immediately present itself through the people. The same can be said of the Greek tradition, especially since the gods themselves are not perfect and exhibit behavior similar to that of any human. Both of these demonstrate the impossibility of perfection. 