The paper begins by introducing the topic that obligate bacteria (bacteria living within hosts) have a smaller genome than free-living bacteria. It proceeds by explaining the mutualistic relationship endosymbiotic bacteria can have with their hosts. From there, a specific structure in bacteria – the flagellum – is discussed in relation to how its presence varies and genes change between obligate and free-range bacterium and why that is the case. Next, the paper discusses ways in which bacterial genomes can change in size, focusing on insertion, deletion, and horizontal gene transfer. Then, the paper addresses that symbiotic bacteria mutate more quickly, potentially losing DNA repair mechanisms, which subsequently leads to a greatly reduced genome. Finally, the paper discusses that the only part of the genome favored to remain in obligate bacteria are parts necessary for replication and parts that maintain the mutualism between the bacteria and the host. 
The paper’s introductory paragraph accurately sums up what the rest of the paper talks about. However, the approach the paper is going to take towards this topic isn’t made clear in the intro, which makes it take some time into the paper to figure exactly what it’s trying to do. The first body paragraph contributes to this confusion as well. While it discusses the benefits of the symbiotic bacteria for the host, and does so effectively, a large section of the paragraph gets off topic in discussing the specifics of how the human immune system works. This distracts from the main point of the paper and, especially since it’s at the beginning of the paper, confuses the reader about what the paper is actually about. Also in this section, it might be beneficial to discuss some of the cited research in more depth. This is done for most of the relevant research in other sections of the paper and doing something similar here would also be helpful. A common theme throughout the paper is the lack of citations in places where they seem necessary. In this paragraph, a citation is needed for the information given about the Rhizobium species of bacteria, and especially in reference to their genome being smaller than non-symbiotic bacteria’s genome. 
The second body paragraph is the paper’s strongest. While it suffers from a few grammatical errors (which will be discussed later), it otherwise is a very strong argument for what you are trying to prove at this point in the paper. It covers the relevant research with depth and describes how this is relevant to why the genome of the symbiotic bacteria shrunk. The discussion of the flagella in both symbiotic and non-symbiotic bacteria accomplishes a similar purpose with a good deal of success as well. However, the paragraph that discusses the change in the genes related to the flagella could be made clearer. In particular, an explanation for how these changes still shrunk the genome would be useful, as well as potentially an explanation about what the genes’ functions were after they changed or something along those lines. 
The second half of the paper after that last paragraph feels a bit isolated from the first half and lacks the necessary transitions for the reader to figure out exactly what the paper is trying to do at the time of the switch. The paper goes from describing specific examples of shrinking of symbiotic bacteria genomes to ways in which any general genome size can change. While eventually the connection between these two parts are made, it takes too long for this to occur and it leaves the reader confused as to the purpose of the paragraphs on deletions, insertions, and horizontal gene transfer as they relate specifically. Also, the paragraph on horizontal gene transfer needs a citation. 
The second to last body paragraph on the restrictions the host plays on the number of endosymbionts in its body contains relevant information and is useful to the argument being made, but it feels out of place and could use some more details to flesh it out into a full paragraph. Likewise, the concept covered in the last body paragraph about the retention of genes essential to the mutualism between the host and the endosymbiont is an essential concept that could be used as more of a counter-example to some of the other research and used more as a limitation of what the other research suggests. While done to a degree, the information in this paragraph could be expanded on significantly, especially due to its importance.
Overall, the paper successfully discusses the topic it sets out to cover, but some issues detract from how easy this is to see. One of the issues present in many paragraphs is a style of writing that detracts from the purpose of the paper. The tone is at times too informal and that the relationship between the first half and the second half of the paper is not explicitly explained with helpful transitions makes the paper tough to follow as the switch occurs. The paper covers relevant information related to the topic but could more explicitly define research trends, especially by directly comparing the information on the tetse fly in the last paragraph with some of the other research. 
There are a few issues in this paper that, if corrected, would make it much more effective at accomplishing its purpose. First of all, as I discussed above, the two halves of the paper are lacking a smooth transition. While the information in the second half (insertion/deletion, mutations that help deletions in the genome, etc) is relevant for the information in the first half, this relationship is not explicitly defined and the transition is confusing. With the addition of the final body paragraph on the tetse fly, which relates more to the first half of the paper, this issue is complicated even more. Rearranging the paragraphs so the discussion on the reasons for a decreased genome comes before any of the specific examples might be helpful, especially if these are discussed throughout the subsequent discussion on the specific examples of the endosymbiotic bacteria, such as Buchnera and the bacteria with flagella. Related to this, a contrast of the data related to these species with the data related to the endosymbiotic bacteria of tetse fly would also be useful. 
Also, the first body paragraph has a style of writing that gets choppy and difficult to read. It is littered with short, choppy sentences that don’t flow from one sentence to the next. This portion of the paper is the only place where it is a noticeable issue and if this is corrected to sound more like the rest of the paper, it is not an issue. 
Throughout the paper, the tone consistently sounds informal with word choice that backs this up. For example, contractions such as “doesn’t” are used frequently when “does not” would be a more preferred option. Also, adjectives, such as “big” and “very”, and transitions such as “in the mean time,” are used at places when more formal wording would improve the tone of the paper. 	
The other major issue in this paper is the grammatical errors seen throughout. The lack of articles (a, an, the) before nouns is a common error seen in many places throughout the paper and should be double-checked for during revision. The other major error occurs with commas used in places they should not be used and commas missing in places where they are needed. Again, this occurs in many places throughout the paper and a double-check of these errors would be useful for a final draft of the paper. Other than that, the only other errors caught in the paper was that an author of one of the papers cited changed from “Macnab” in one place to “Macnaba” in other place and the misspelling of “Salmonella” as “Slamonella.”  
