A high quality sexuality education curriculum contains some of the most important information young women will ever receive. Yet, in the United States, sex ed programs are widely unregulated and vary on a school-to-school basis. Many of them fail to properly educate young women to make safe, well-informed decisions regarding their sexual health. Compared to most other industrialized nations, American women are at a significant disadvantage. To make matters worse, there is also a significant discrepancy between the quality of sex education program amongst American women based upon factors such as race and socio-economic status. In these cases, the system makes it even more difficult for already discriminated-against women to avoid negative life outcomes. When properly taught, however, sex education greatly increases women’s chances of achieving positive life outcomes. Thus, American policy regarding these programs must be drastically changed to not only ensure that the best programs are equivalent to those overseas, but also to guarantee that every young woman has access to a quality program, regardless of any other factor. 
Ensuring that the United States has a strong sex education curriculum in place is unquestionably important for women’s health in the country. Students oftentimes rely on adults, in particular parents and teachers, to teach them. Given their social position, it is therefore these parents’ and adults’ responsibilities to guarantee that the children and young adults are provided the necessary information to make informed decisions. Doing so in regards to sex education provides these students agency in making decisions regarding their sexuality and sexual health. While these hypothetical comprehensive programs would be useful for young men as well, they would be particularly important for young women. Foremost, they would ensure that all women receive medically accurate information about birth control methods, as well as teach them how to obtain it. Considering that as of 2001, about half of the pregnancies in the United States were unplanned , wider distribution of this information would provide women power in determining if and when they wanted to have children. By teaching this in schools, young women would be able to have this information as soon as it is relevant to them, while they would also be able to retain it for the rest of their lives. Other types of information that would be taught in a comprehensive sex ed program would have similar effects. Information about STI transmission could help women make better decisions about their sexuality, while discussions about anatomy could help women feel more comfortable and empowered by their body. If harassment and interpersonal violence were covered, women could be better prepared to identify and react to threatening situations. Finally, young men provided this information would be better informed about women’s health issues as well, which could have numerous benefits ranging from more open discussion about women’s health to an increased awareness amongst men about sexual harassment and violence, which would potentially decrease the number of incidents men perpetrate against women. Of course, a number of other factors play into each situation, but education alone creates better informed people who are prepared to make better decisions for their own well-being, as well as women’s health in general. 
Currently, sex education in the United States fails to educate students to anywhere near its potential. Policy currently gives states control over deciding what curriculum to mandate in public schools, if any curriculum is even mandated at all. According to data compiled by the Guttmacher Institute, an institution that focuses on "advancing sexual and reproductive health worldwide," only 22 states require that schools teach sex education at all. When it is taught in any of the states, 37 require that abstinence is at least covered and 26 of those require that it is stressed. In comparison, only 17 states require that contraception is covered. The federal government does maintain some control in funding these types of programs and has actually improved recently, as Heather Boonstra discusses in two separate pieces. In the first, from 2007, she explains how George W. Bush’s administration planned to allocate $204 million to be spent on abstinence-only education. Of the $204 million, $50 million was automatically given to the states, under Title V of the Social Security Act. If the states accepted, they then had to follow a strict abstinence-only program. While some did not, this still funded numerous abstinence-only programs around the country.  For the 2012 fiscal year, a budget was approved that gave $55 million towards abstinence-only programs, including the same $50 million automatically given to fund strict programs. However, $180 million was approved to fund medically accurate and age appropriate sex education programs that focused on both abstinence and contraception as well. While positive changes have been made, the debate between the sides continues today within the government. This makes it even more important to ensure that the best, most comprehensive plan possible is established. 
On the other end of the spectrum is the abstinence-only curriculum, which, despite ever-increasing evidence that shows it is ineffective, still has many supporters in the United States government. Much of this support stems from the idea that any adolescent sexual activity is high-risk and harmful to the young people participating, and is largely based in religious beliefs. Many studies have shown that abstinence-only education programs are entirely ineffective in encouraging young adults to not have sex. For example, the National Survey of Family Growth analyzed in the Journal of Adolescent Health demonstrated that after accounting for other factors such as race, age, and gender, adolescents who received abstinence-only sex education were just as likely to have engaged in vaginal intercourse as those who received no sex education. Likewise, these young adults were just as likely to report a pregnancy as those who did not receive any formal sex education. Danielle Leclair builds upon this with findings from a number of studies that all concluded the same thing: students who received an abstinence-only sex ed curriculum were not more likely to remain abstinent, but were less likely to use contraceptives when they did choose to have sex. Despite this information, the federal government still insists on spending $50 million a year on a program that clearly does not work. This is both a blatant waste of taxpayer money as well as a policy that leaves young women at greater risk for the negative life outcomes associated with early and unplanned pregnancy, as well as STI transmission. These reasons alone are enough to say abstinence-only programs should not be taught to young women, and they should especially not be government funded.  
As its name implies in relation to comprehensive sex education curriculums, abstinence-only programs leave out significant amounts of critical information. Not only are the programs ineffective at preventing pregnancy, but they also leave young women without enough information to consistently make healthy decision regarding their sexuality. This can be seen most clearly by the amount of information is left out surrounding contraceptive methods, but also critical information about things such as abortion, communication about sex, finding healthcare for sexual concerns, and sexual orientation. Though in some cases teachers supplemented an abstinence-only curriculum with some of this material , all of this material is critical for an adolescent girl to learn to have a full understanding of her sexuality and the control she has over it. Abstinence-only programs are also known to intentionally mislead young women by purposefully presenting false information to scare adolescents out of having sex.
Abstinence-only programs also tend to consider all women to be a homogenous population and treat all women the same as a result. This is especially true for homosexual women who are completely marginalized by an abstinence-only curriculum. Much of the abstinence-only curriculum focuses on the damage that sex outside of marriage can cause. Since same sex marriage is not legal in many states, abstinence only programs leave teens that are not straight to wonder if they even should have sex. This creates an atmosphere that ostracizes these individuals and builds upon the established heteronormative culture. In an interview, one homosexual male, Jose, described his thought-process going through an abstinence-only curriculum: "If you aren’t represented when they talk about human sexuality—you’re not human. You can’t be, because you’re not included." Likewise, many young women who did not identify as straight must have experienced similar isolation experiencing that curriculum. In some cases, the curriculum further creates a "climate of intolerance" by stating things such as "homosexual activity involves an especially high risk for AIDS" because it is an "unnatural activity" that creates "additional damage" to "blood vessels and other body parts." Instead of providing information and normalizing these groups’ experiences to help them better understand their identity, these programs often further exclude them. This kind of discrimination and intolerance should not be allowed to be taught, especially by government-funded programs.    
Unfortunately, replacing all abstinence-only curriculums with more comprehensive curriculums still would only go so far in creating a more effective sex education program. One other important factor is the lack of well-trained educators that have gone through training specifically to teach sex ed courses. In a survey of Illinois sex educators from 2004, only two-thirds of the teachers had received formal sex education training and half of the total educators had been teaching sex education for seven years or less. Of the trained teachers, 86 percent felt comfortable teaching sex education, compared to only 56 percent of the untrained teachers. These statistics emphasize the importance of formalizing the process of training teachers. Aside from just being more knowledgeable, the trained, comfortable teachers would definitely be a better resource for students as they are likely to be more open about a variety of important topics, even controversial ones. In fact, trained educators were 2.5 times more likely to teach a comprehensive program as opposed to a more minimal abstinence-only program and also taught a "significantly greater number of topics." In order to be have a successful sex education program nationwide, educators must be trained to guarantee that they will feel comfortable discussing all topics with students. If an educator only feels comfortable discussing abstinence, her students will learn little, regardless of the state or federal policy. By training educators, knowledge about and comfort discussing the topics will increase substantially, which will then be able to be passed down to all students if the right curriculum is also in place. 
Related to both curriculum used and amount of training given to teachers, as well as other factors, is the fact that young minority women and young women of low socio-economic status are much more likely to become pregnant as a teenager or contract an STI than their white middle class counterparts. Considering these groups’ social position, this is hardly a surprise, but does present another serious problem with the current system. While there are numerous factors at play that are difficult to untangle to figure out a direct causal relationship, it is clear that at least some of the blame for this discrepancy falls on the sexuality education system. According to research reported by Boonstra, while 66% of white teenages received information about birth control before first having sex, only 45% of Hispanic teens and 33% of black teens received the same. Likewise, 62% of teens whose families made greater than twice the poverty line received this education, while only 44% of teens below twice the poverty line did. Another study found that white teenage women had a birth rate of 27.6 per 1000 teens, black teenage women had a birth rate of 59.2 births per 1000 teens, and Hispanic teenage women had a birth rate of 96.1 births per 1000 teens. Amongst all these groups, birth rates increased as abstinence-only education increased, and abstinence-only education increased as the proportion of black teens to white teens increased. Finally, STI rates are seen to be correlated to ethnicity as well.. Combined, these are all alarming trends that must be remedied. To do so would be difficult, as each factor seems to go hand-in-hand with the others, making it tough to pick out the one most correlated with poor life-outcomes for adolescent women. It is, however, clear that quality sex education is not reaching all audiences equally and probably reaches the most vulnerable groups the least often. This leaves young black and Hispanic women, as well as all poorer women, without the agency to make well-informed decisions regarding their sexual health. Undoubtedly, this is at least one reason why birth rates and STI transmissions are substantially higher amongst minority groups. Lack of information that a proper sex ed course would provide would allow women to be more aware of the resources available to them in terms of birth control and STI prevention methods. With this knowledge, it is possible that some of disadvantages of living in those types of situations would be at least partially mitigated. While there are definitely other factors also in play, fixing sex education in these high risk areas where the problems are currently greatest might go a long way in starting to resolve some of them and would, at the very least, provide women much needed agency. 
To fix sex education in the United State and to guarantee that women will have the opportunity in school to learn the much-needed information it provides, significant changes to public policy are necessary. By starting to make these changes, it is hoped that the United States’ high teenage pregnancy rate will start to decrease to match other industrialized nations. A group of leading health organizations released a set of basic standards that the minimum comprehensive sex education curriculum should contain. It includes guidelines for grades K-12 and acknowledges seven key areas for learning, including anatomy, pregnancy and reproduction, healthy relationships, and identity. To cover these areas effectively, other changes must also be made. Currently, the median time spend on sex education is only 14 hours total between middle and high school. In order to fully develop these programs, significantly more time is needed to make sure that all the material is covered and later reviewed, to help it be better remembered. While not as explicitly sex-positive as some would hope, these standards appear to be good for an electorate that is strongly in favor of a comprehensive sexuality program, but still faces challenges from some conservative leaders. Results from the study described in the Journal of Adolescent Health determined that a "comprehensive sex education was associated with a 50% lower risk of teen pregnancy." This data did not adjust for which groups of people are more likely to receive comprehensive sex education, so the effect of implementing this plan is likely less significant than that, but it does still show that these policy changes alone could make a significant impact and would be a definite improvement over abstinence-only education. Policy changes must be made that make these standards or a close equivalent a requirement in all schools. 
In order for any proposed changes to actually be successful, however, appropriate resources must be distributed to all schools, not just those where current programs are relatively strong. Instead, all schools must adopt this minimum comprehensive sex education program for it to be as effective as it needs to be. The program must be in place in locations with high populations of poorer people and minorities, where sex ed is more frequently abstinence-only programs compared to more heavily white and middle class portions of the country. It is in these groups where the changes would be the most drastic and the outcomes for women would hopefully improve the most. Also, in order to ensure that this benefit is felt, training programs must be put in place to train all of the educators that will be leading these programs. As a comprehensive program covers much more information, the instructors may not be familiar with or comfortable discussing some of it. To make sure they are fully prepared to teach the students, rigorous training must be provided. Again, a focus must be placed on ensuring that the teachers in the poorer regions are given the same resources as those elsewhere to fully guarantee that the information makes it to the students who need it most. 
While sex education in the United States is currently lagging between other areas of the developed world, there does seem to be movement currently in the right direction. In order to fully develop a sex education program that informs and empowers young women on decisions that will improve their life outcomes, a policy change must dictate that comprehensive sex ed is required everywhere, with no exceptions for abstinence-only education. Abstinence-only has been proven over and over again to be an ineffective way to teach sex education and does not provide nearly enough information to give women power in terms of their sexual health. If a comprehensive plan were to be executed correctly and with enough training to educators and support for all areas of the country, this could be accomplished. With those changes made, the probability of positive life outcomes for women everywhere, regardless of race or socioeconomic status, will greatly increase. 