Tonight I attended the Mark Webster Series Reading in the Helmut Stern Auditorium.  Tonight I listened to a beautiful accent read about a man who humps signposts, a man who loves, crazy.  It was alarming and lovely. But I will focus on the part of tonight that heard fado played without guitars.  Love like dancing.  I will focus on the pile of bones I heard growing tonight. 	Thinking about it now, the poem about fado reminds me of the exercise we did in class combining love, architecture, and the upholstering of a chair.  This poem about fado let details mix into unity. I listened to phrases like “sending out postcards blank,” “ocean for a metronome,” phrases about sinning in the sun and an empty Polaroid.  But I heard ashes of passion that burned up identity falling.  I heard the emptiness of a room, or a mind, when a really good song ends and won’t ever play again.  The details of this poem are what made me feel what I felt.  The ocean became the beat of a song, a love maybe, that won’t last forever. And yet oceans won’t ever stop beating, really.  They’ll keep their tempo forever.  This is an ironic metaphor and it works.  The ocean will last forever, but it will continue to keep the time to different songs, different lives, different loves.  It’s malleable.  In this way, this metaphor plays to both sides of the irony.  The love will end, but the songs will keep playing.   Finally, the line “lonely space between falling in love and dying” makes sense to me.  It sounds like negative space.  It sounds like a definition of life by way of what it’s not.  It seems to say that life is not just falling in love and dying.  Dying is the end, love the climax (that tiny tip of life’s plot mountain,) and everything else is the real meat of life.  This poem affords that perspective.  The climax and the end are such passion-full parts of life that oftentimes it seems we let those moments or the possibility of them define our lives and selves, at least I do.  And it sounds like perhaps the Portuguese do too.  This poem seems to say suggest that the rest of life is something, too.  Maybe it doesn’t need to be lonely.  Maybe I’m extrapolating too much.	In “Repatriation,” the way the word “piled” was spoken illustrated the humanness, the tangibility of a pile of bones.   And how horrifying that idea is.  It wasn’t just the repetition of the word that gave it so much power, but rather the way it needed to repeat itself, like a brain going crazy.  Maybe each repetition of “piled” was another bone added to the pile.  Each time the word was repeated, the volume got louder, and maybe the pile got higher.  With each repetition, the pile took more of the attention.  If it was portrayed in a movie, each repetition would be a zoom in toward the pile.  Until the loudest “piled” brought us right up to the cracks in the bones.	Finally, the poem about Indians, the final poem read, spoke about how cultures, in some cases, have become more of a topic of conversation we must flaunt (“offer to teach them dances you don’t know but should”) or a box to check on a college application.  I am going to go on a quick tangent to finish off my review.  This poem tapped into something I’ve felt before.  Though this poem spoke about native peoples of America, in doing so it established a theme that’s universal, I think, one that applies to many people of many different cultures.  In this next part of my review, I’d like to explain what this poem evoked in me. I’m Panamanian and while my grandma, my great grandparents and the rest of the people on my mother’s mother’s side of the family are Panamanian in dress, food, music, language, action, and all other things culture, my mom is not.  She was born in the Canal Zone of Panama City, but then she moved to the United States for college and never went back (except for Christmases.)  And while I don’t think that there’s anything wrong with this personal loss of one culture for the gain of another, I’m still left with some Panamanian blood. And I cherish this blood as an exotic, unique, intrinsic part of me.  Sometimes, though, I feel that I don’t have much to substantiate it with.  I’m left with a culture I can learn but didn’t grow up with except in the small doses of Feliz Navidads and Prospero Año Nuevos.  This poem talked about that for me.  About the intangibility of a history, a where we came from.   And it made me think of this analogy:  Someone tells you to take a bite of this cake, because this cake is what your history, your identity, tastes like.  But you only get one bite because the cake is rare here and can’t be eaten gluttonously. So, not only can you not quite describe what it tasted like, you can’t claim to have digested anymore than that one little bite.  So really, your stomach is emptier than it is full.  “How can you be sure you are who you really are?”  Did you digest enough to be able to say you ate cake?  The “one Indian and a fraud” line seems to lie near the heart of this poem. The juxtaposition of “Indian” and “fraud” allows the reader to understand what the speaker might feel.  Sometimes culture does not live on a spectrum.  Sometimes you are either an Indian or a fraud.  Sometimes it feels like there’s no in between.  This poem describes those sometimes, I think.