At face value, students appear to be devoted to making a mark on the community around them; that the stupendous dedication to community service stems from a craving to improve the world.This is deceptive.  Real life reveals that students are devoted to making a mark on their college applications; that the stupendous dedication to community service stems from a coveting to improve a status.The fact that we’re in high school means that college consumes many aspects of our lives.  There are the parents, the pressure, the GPAs. To simplify, we’re told we need good grades, good test scores, some standing commitments, and community service.  Community service turns into a requirement to fill and thus a detrimental cycle begins. Community service clubs become hypocritical and ineffective.  The clubs then help put our lives, as high school students, even further out of perspective.Speaking of faulty perspectives, we have the largest Key Club in Michigan.  Face value says that this is wonderful news.  Real life asks what we have to show for it. All in all, the claim that our Key Club helps the community may pass, but mainly due to our power in numbers.  Pop-can tabs are piling up to be donated–many of which were purchased online–and events do sporadically have student volunteers.  Can it not be argued that many individual members have a sort of pseudo-commitment?  Most members participate in events until they have enough points to be considered a member; enough points to write “Key Club” on their college application. A similar perspective can be gathered from the National Honors Society.  The criteria to become a member of NHS, another hot-spot club for college resumes, consist of a 3.4 GPA and what they call community service.  Most students do the bare minimum to account for the requirements.Community service presented as a requirement forces us to live our lives out of perspective.  We should be following our passions and having what positive influences on the world that we can. High school students are filled with passion as seen on the field, the track, the stage, the arts, the compositions, etc.  This pseudo-community service seems to cover up any passion for helping the world that might have existed.  After filling our requirements for college, the mind set becomes “Why would I waste any more time doing this?”  instead of, “Wow, I really can make a difference.” “Making a difference” and “changing the world” are phrases now considered cliché. The first definition of “community service” on dictionary.com says, “A punitive sentence that requires a convicted person to perform unpaid work for the community in lieu of imprisonment.”  Maybe the problem extends beyond high school. Maybe we mirror the faulty perspectives of the rest of the world.