I stood with my back to the street, facing this house, this house with its vinyl records stapled to its decaying wooden walls and the word “God” written and re-written many times over pealed paint, as ever present as the Almighty himself.  	I’d been looking at art, looking to see something all day--but what I felt as I stood with my back to the street, I hadn’t known to look for.	Just a flutter of the old curtains made my mind hiccup.  And then I was seeing with a slower sort of looking, a sort of looking that saw not in images but in spans of time.  I stood with my back to the street, and saw that this house, my house, built what I know of my family and built what I know of myself, build what I know of the past and what I know of the present.  Then the foundation left after all this building became the foundation of the city I’m tied to but don’t know, the house I call my own but don’t live in.  It became the foundation of my Detroit.  But what was it about those curtains?  They just kept on fluttering.	Flutter.  Flutter, flutter.  The windows of the house held my eye like the source of a hiccup holds your mind as you will. Will, will the hiccups away... only to again be thrown by the next one that comes from somewhere way down deep, somewhere lost.  But how grotesque those windows were, the pieces of glass missing not shattered by a rock but sliced by the wind.  Sliced delicately, meticulously, courteously; left with shards in the panes to shield the room within.  But still, it was the forgotten curtains in the upper left-hand window, the ones that feel to the wind like voodoo dolls being made to dance a nostalgic ballet, that my eye clung to.	Somebody somewhere left these curtains to flutter, exposed in the windowpane.  My dad once told me about a room on the second floor of his house in Detroit, on Devonshire Road.  He told me that he’d climb up the stairs of his little house, to where his Grandma Scullen lived on the second floor.  They’d watch TV.  She’d order pizza, he’d eat it.  He’d buy cigarettes, she’d smoke them.  And it would all happen in a little room on the second floor of his little house in Detroit, a little house much like this one.  I could almost see my great-grandmother sticking her cigarette out of the gaping hole in the window, the hole meticulously sliced open by the same wind that makes the lonely curtains flutter.	My dad says that one of his favorite memories of living in Detroit was “playing in the street--no parks around, so we played football or whatever in the street until someone yelled ‘car.’”  	And with that yell, my great-grandmother may have dropped her cigarette out the window and then cursed the hiccup-like jolt that made her do so.  	My grandma remembers playing in the street as a kid, so does her sister, my Aunt Carol.  Both my dad’s sisters, Aunt Sandi and Aunt Mary Kay remember doing so, too.  I’m sure that if I had the chance to talk to my grandpa, he would say the same.	For me, too, the best days are the days when my dad and brother play football in the street, stopping only when someone yells “car.”  It feels like home.  That feeling exists within the walls of the house I am facing.	I kept watching those curtains flow with grace through the chilled wind, as if the wind were a kitten playfully batting at the fabric, making it rustle only a smidgen and in spurts.  In similar spurts, thoughts kept coming, the slow seeing kept happening.	My dad’s family did not have a kitten when they lived in a little house much like this one.  My Aunt Mary Kay is allergic.  	My Aunt Mary Kay says that one of her earliest memories of living in Detroit was “walking to kindergarten--going two blocks to the cherry tree, turning right and walking to Clark School.”  The cherry tree--a little-neighborhood staple.  My dad and Aunt Mary Kay could see the cherry tree from my great-grandmother’s window.  My dad says that he remembers looking out of his grandma’s window on the second floor of their little house in Detroit, past the curtains, past the cherry tree, past the glass, and out onto the rooftops beyond.  He remembers them being white--the first snow.  	Watching those white curtains flutter in the wind, I thought about those white rooftops and the white, warm bodies sheltered below, many of which were my relatives.  My dad’s cousins, the Armstrongs and the McCauslands, each had rooftops on the next block over and Cal’s, the family restaurant, was right up the street.  My dad says that to him Detroit meant the couple blocks surrounding his house.  It meant the cherry tree and the restaurant down the street.  That’s what I feel like the inside of this house I am facing, my house, looks like.  But I know it is not.	I became more aware of the wind and the its chill and I wondered how the curtains would dance in a Michigan snow storm.  I pictured them having a seizure, an epileptic dancer left to the lights.  	I remember learning about the White Flight in school.  I remember picturing fancy, stuck up ladies and fancy, stuck up men springing in their high heals and waxed shoes away from Detroit with their pointy noses held so high that their oversized hats just barely stay on.  I remember my mind calling them racists and thinking them scum, quite frankly.  But it was always “them” and “they.”  They deserted the city.  They caused Detroit’s decline.	Standing with my back to the street, facing this house, I realized that the curtains that could have been my dad’s were white.  A dirty white.	My mind hiccuped again but now the lapse time in between shrunk.  The hiccups kept coming.	Aunt Mary Kay lives in Farmington Hills, Aunt Sandi lives in Petoskey, Aunt Carol lives in Saint Clair Shores, Grandma lives in Shelby Township, the Armstrongs live in Roseville, the McCauslands live in Clinton Township, and we, my dad, mom, brother, and I, live in Rochester.  Metro Detroit.  We all live in Metro Detroit.	My family was part of the White Flight and it could have been my dad, me eight-year-old dad, who locked those curtains in the vault of the past.  They left the city in 1976, as soon as my dad finished first grade.	With my camera, I clicked and I clicked, but I could not capture the flutter of the curtains, I could not capture the white, dirty white, I could not capture the abandonment and the desperation.  I could not capture the inside of the house.	But I can capture the outside.  My neck is tired of looking at what I can’t actually see.  So first I look down and then just around.  There, again, is the ever-present “God” and the records upon records upon records.	I touch a record and I’m holding my candle on the Fisher Theater stage, steading the nervous hiccups with a bravery known only to performers who can remember their first time onstage.  I open my mouth and become part of the Children’s Ensemble of Evita.  I was one of the cast’s “little Detroiters.”	I touch another record and I’m in the gothic church on Woodward Avenue.  Brass notes jump from high, painted ceiling to low, garnished pews, to our ears.  With a wave of Mr. Ulrich’s demanding hand and a simultaneous smirk from the choir of friends, I open my mouth and become part of the Stoney Creek Chamber Singers.  Detroit was one of the most prestigious places we sang.	I touch another record and I’m at 1515 Broadway, the café across from the Opera House.  We walked in a couple minutes ago, hearing the cheers from Comerica Park bounce around the streets, on our Opera Camp lunch break.  But Crystal from Detropia lets us hang around an empty counter while she finishes her cigarette.  She lets us give the empty café a real good, impatient look before tossing her cigarette to the sidewalk and joining us at the counter.  In my mind’s eye, I’m practicing the song I will sing to the golden house later that night.  I open my mouth and become the opera singer I always knew I could be, leisurely twirling my shapely dress to the sound of my high notes.  Detroit was my very real fantasy land.	Back down I look, and there are the steps, the colorful steps that lead to the front door of the house.	I step onto the first step’s splattered grey footing.  And there I am taking the next stride in the Turkey Trot, stepping on the splattered-with-food-and-ribbon-and-wrappers-and-clothing streets of downtown Detroit.  My brother is beating me and that won’t due, do I speed up.	I step onto the second step that goes blue and then green.  And there I am looking into the water of the Detroit River.  I can never, ever decide whether it is great or blue, green or blue.  “How’s my best girl?  She ready to drive?” my papa asks.  I drive until we submerge under the Belle Isle Bridge and Papa laughs as I sing and shout my head off, letting the echoes carry my voice so that all of Detroit could hear me.	I step onto the third step that’s a red as bright as the shirt of the man Gram and I met at the Eastern Market.  And there I am looking into his eyes as he tells us about the huge sunflowers he has growing in his front yard.  I’ve got our own fresh sunflowers wedged between my legs because both my hands and Gram’s are occupied, scooping the homemade ice cream into our mouths.  Best.  Taste.  Ever.  We both agree.	I’m at the door now, but I can’t go in.  The outside of this house I know as my own, but not the inside.	My dad’s eight-year-old self knew what the inside of this house looked like during the eight years before 1976.  But in 1976, he left the city.  He’s not sure why they left the city but he does know that “they forced integration on all of us.”  Black kids were bused into his school district, just for the sake of integration.  How do you keep friendships with people who live three city bus rides away?  How do you open up to strangers who are present because they are mandated to be so?  How are young kids supposed to know how to mix and mingle when they have very little in common?  How do teachers manage it all?  Though not at all solely because of “forced integration,” schools went downhill and have yet to come back up.  So away my family went.	I still see the ladies and men springing in their high heals and waked shoes away from Detroit, but I let my eight-year-old dad walk next to them in my mind’s eye.  The juxtaposition pacifies the image and I decide not to judge the stuck up ladies quite so hard.  	I looked up again with a hopeful yet accepting glance.  The curtains still danced, abandoned in the breeze.  For a second I thought I saw my dad’s little face looking back at me through the splintered windows, but then the image slipped away as fast as it had come.  This window was not my dad’s, not my great grandma’s.  A full sheet of glass protected my dad from the slicing wind.  His window that led to the inside of the house is one of the past.  But it’s with a pang of hurt that I realized that this window and this house belongs to suffering, to struggle.  And it’s with a pang of hurt that I realize that someone’s dad, or many someones’ dads, lives behind this window, in the house that is the inside of Detroit... and that someone’s dad is suffering.  	I’m standing with my back to the street, facing this house, and I know that this house is my house.  It’s my house but I’ve never bee inside.  In my mind’s eye, my dad stands beside me, looking up at the white curtains.  So does my Aunt Mary Kay, my Aunt Sandi, my Aunt Carol, my Grandma, all of the Armstrongs, all of the McCauslands, and my mom and brother, too.  Some of them know the memory of what was once behind those vaulted doors.  I only know the outside.  The house was not deserted, it was left.  Left because the windows were breaking.  And we all come back and enjoy a visit as often as we can.	None of us know exactly what is behind those doors now.  We all see those dirty white curtains, though, and we know we want to help, want to clean.  Maybe we’re the missing link.