That room filled with schizophrenics, Oprah, love-obsessed senior citizens, Michael Jackson and Dracula seemed to open a door unseen by anyone but him.  To a spectator, it seemed as if he fell away from the critical high school world and into one he and the people around him would create.  By day, he was Graham Key… by Improv Club he was anything and everything he wanted to be.	Since its inception, Improv Club has been a hot spot for a unique group of kids.  Leaders of the club now realize that the nature of improv-actors’ fun- allows for greater possibilities than understood last year.  With the opening of the school year’s curtain comes a new role for Stoney Creek’s Improv Club to play.  From the initiation of new student presidents to a now limited number of skilled players accepted through an audition process, Stoney’s Improv Club is becoming a more notable and competitive club.	With the amount of talent portrayed in last year’s Improv Club, it’s no wonder leaders are thickening the plot. “Kids I didn’t expect to really floored me; I was amazed at the characters that they had created and sometimes I laughed harder during improv than all year,” Todd Miesch, supervisor of the club, said. 	The purpose of Improv Club seems to be to provide a stage on which any emotion can come alive in any character at any time in any place.  Wherever the moment takes the actor, the actor goes.  One moment may lead to the Louvre in Paris and the next to a subway in New York City.   A Vietnam veteran, then a professional tap dancer. Tranquility and then insanity.	The club’s plan of showcasing its talent for the first time in a partner performance with the One Act Play will allow an audience to witness this everyday phenomenon. Jillian Hoffman, a student leader, said that the club had plans of representing Stoney Creek in a way like never before.  Apparently, a head to head battle with the highly acclaimed Improv Club of Rochester High School may be in the club’s script for the year.	Advocating for the club, Hoffman explained that with all of the pressures of student life in and outside of school, they need a place to let go. She said that Improv club provides an afterschool social outlet where students can literally become whoever they want be as the club can be home to many characters. Of auditions, Hoffman said that the leaders aren’t looking for stars, just for people who feed off of each other well to create the scene and inspire the laughter.	Looking toward the club’s opening number, freshman Graham Key both likes and dislikes the prospect of auditioning for Improv Club.  Though it won’t be open to all, a characteristic he is sorry to see disappear this year, it will become “more professional,” Key said, an attribute which will further esteem the club.  For his audition, Key will be performing a monologue from Woody Allen’s Take the Money and Run.