In order to approach education correctly, according to Locke's guidelines, understanding what constitutes "work" versus what constitutes "play" is necessary.  In this passage, Locke defines said terms for us.“Work” he describes as something children are “called to do” that they are “teased and chid about” while “play” he describes as something done freely or at a child’s “liberty.”  “Work,” in the child’s eyes, thus takes on a negative connotation while play is left to its positive one.  I therefore gather that, according to Locke, “work” and “play” have very little to do with the actual play and work things, an idea I am having a hard time dealing with.  He says that if children were made to do “dancing and scotchhoppers” in the way they are often made to do chores or “work,” the enjoyment would drain and “play” would become “work.”  So, too, can “work” be made “play.”  This is an easy idea enough, and I agree with Locke in that teachers must be smart in their teaching, must refrain from making “work” seem like a job to fulfill but rather like an opportunity to learn and be excited.  But there’s something about the way Locke presents his information that confuses me, even makes me a little scared.If “work” and “play” depend entirely on the “examples of others whom [children] esteem and think above themselves,” does that not imply that I, a former child, only enjoy my “play” things, my activities I do “freely,” because someone at one time not only allowed me that freedom but showed me to love those things by example?  Do I truly only enjoy painting or writing or singing because I was allowed to “freely” do them at one point in my life? It is possible that I am taking Locke’s ideas to an extreme, I suppose, but to me his writing elicits a sort of Big Brother-type mood.  If I, as a child, am “allowed” to freely do what I want, am I actually free?  What’s more, Locke implies that a child only wants to do what he wants to do because that’s what others taught him to want.  What I understand him to be saying is that teachers should trick students into liking work and thinking it play.  And then I find myself wondering if someone did not already do that to me, some teacher in my past.  Are my ideas of “work” and “play” already tampered with?  Was painting and writing and singing work to someone before me who taught me to think them play so as to better me somehow? Are these confused ideas about “work” and “play” not some huge continuum, then, if my “play” and my “work” are configured by others? Therefore, I am starting to think that Locke’s ideas are not as much about “education” as they are about brainwashing and clever ways of crafting clones of the educator.  If the educator tampers with “work” and “play” in this manner, Locke says that children will go about doing the educator’s definition of “work” as if it was “their dearly beloved freedom.”  This word choice enforces my belief that Lock is, in fact, mocking a child’s freedom!  A crazed but clever tyrant could use this information just as easily against his people, I think, to make them believe the work he makes them do is play.  Maybe I’ve looked at this excerpt a bit too negatively, but I couldn’t help but see a sort of extended comparison accidentally (or perhaps purposefully) being drawn between education, government, and brainwashing as I read Locke’s writing.  In this passage, Locke implies that educators must manipulate a child’s “natural freedom.” I would argue that a teacher should, instead, work with a child’s natural freedom and whims.  Allow a child’s definition of work to be work and play to be play.  Then, let him learn from both equally as his natural instincts see fit.  In order to approach education correctly, according to Locke's guidelines, understanding what constitutes "work" versus what constitutes "play" is necessary.  In this passage, Locke defines said terms for us.“Work” he describes as something children are “called to do” that they are “teased and chid about” while “play” he describes as something done freely or at a child’s “liberty.”  “Work,” in the child’s eyes, thus takes on a negative connotation while play is left to its positive one.  I therefore gather that, according to Locke, “work” and “play” have very little to do with the actual play and work things, an idea I am having a hard time dealing with.  He says that if children were made to do “dancing and scotchhoppers” in the way they are often made to do chores or “work,” the enjoyment would drain and “play” would become “work.”  So, too, can “work” be made “play.”  This is an easy idea enough, and I agree with Locke in that teachers must be smart in their teaching, must refrain from making “work” seem like a job to fulfill but rather like an opportunity to learn and be excited.  But there’s something about the way Locke presents his information that confuses me, even makes me a little scared.If “work” and “play” depend entirely on the “examples of others whom [children] esteem and think above themselves,” does that not imply that I, a former child, only enjoy my “play” things, my activities I do “freely,” because someone at one time not only allowed me that freedom but showed me to love those things by example?  Do I truly only enjoy painting or writing or singing because I was allowed to “freely” do them at one point in my life? It is possible that I am taking Locke’s ideas to an extreme, I suppose, but to me his writing elicits a sort of Big Brother-type mood.  If I, as a child, am “allowed” to freely do what I want, am I actually free?  What’s more, Locke implies that a child only wants to do what he wants to do because that’s what others taught him to want.  What I understand him to be saying is that teachers should trick students into liking work and thinking it play.  And then I find myself wondering if someone did not already do that to me, some teacher in my past.  Are my ideas of “work” and “play” already tampered with?  Was painting and writing and singing work to someone before me who taught me to think them play so as to better me somehow? Are these confused ideas about “work” and “play” not some huge continuum, then, if my “play” and my “work” are configured by others? Therefore, I am starting to think that Locke’s ideas are not as much about “education” as they are about brainwashing and clever ways of crafting clones of the educator.  If the educator tampers with “work” and “play” in this manner, Locke says that children will go about doing the educator’s definition of “work” as if it was “their dearly beloved freedom.”  This word choice enforces my belief that Lock is, in fact, mocking a child’s freedom!  A crazed but clever tyrant could use this information just as easily against his people, I think, to make them believe the work he makes them do is play.  Maybe I’ve looked at this excerpt a bit too negatively, but I couldn’t help but see a sort of extended comparison accidentally (or perhaps purposefully) being drawn between education, government, and brainwashing as I read Locke’s writing.  In this passage, Locke implies that educators must manipulate a child’s “natural freedom.” I would argue that a teacher should, instead, work with a child’s natural freedom and whims.  Allow a child’s definition of work to be work and play to be play.  Then, let him learn from both equally as his natural instincts see fit.  	Alice was sitting “idly” by the pond with her sister at this story’s onset.  Some adults may also argue that jumping willingly into a rabbit’s hole for curiosity’s sake is considered nothing but “mischievous.”  I disagree, and I think Lewis Carroll just might too.	In chapter two of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Carroll parodies Isaac Watt’s poem “Against Idleness and Mischief,” so I’d like to look at both Carroll’s parody and the original in order to try to draw some conclusions, or possibilities, rather, about Carroll’s beliefs on education, on the value of experience and even on curiosity.	Now, as Watts’s title itself gives away, Watts believes that “Satan finds some mischief” for children who do not keep busy “In Books, or work, or healthful Play.”  But in the place of Watts’s dutiful “little busy Bee,” Carroll writes about “the little crocodile.”  Now, while bees are “busy,” crocodiles seem to sit and bath until it’s time to eat.  But speaking of eating, Carroll’s poem focuses on how a crocodile finds food just as a bee makes food.  In the natural world, crocodiles can’t make their own food but rather they must catch it.  Maybe Carroll is suggesting that finding the knowledge that curiosity lures a child to is just as good a way to learn as making a child study poems and timetables.  Watts uses the Bee as a natural example of how to be dutiful and worker-like for children, but Carroll points out that other natural examples exist, too (though, I don’t know that Carroll was imploring children to be the crocodile.  I think she was, however, prodding their curiosity with this new natural metaphor.)	One of the effects of this inversion of ideas is Carroll’s implied suggestion that there’s something to be said for a child’s happiness and enjoyment of life outside of the sphere or work and education, I think.  While Watts’s Bee “skillfully” works, Carroll’s crocodile “cheerfully” smiles.  This implication seems especially true in the context of Alice’s story.   Carroll’s story delves into the mind of the child, the imagination of the child, the (excuse the cliché!) out-of-the-box thinking of a child and here juxtaposes it to the Lockian idea of shaping the child by making her recite poetry, learn her times tables, and learn her geography.  By doing this, Carroll points out that children can learn in their own more magical, more natural, more Rousseauian ways, too, without having to fret about knowledge as Alice does in this passage.   Costumes.  That is the link I see between these two images.  The first is a gelatin silver print by Lucien Clergue, entitled Harlequin.  The second a color lithograph by Guy Krogh, untitled, but referenced to as “Four children in costumes.”  Neither defines childhood, but both comment on childhood’s malleability.  In Clergue’s Harlequin image, I see a little boy in what must be a dance costume patterned with eccentric, repetitive diamonds.  He is wearing jazz shoes and is posing for the photo with an obedience contested by the glare on his face.  He is very visibly unhappy, angry even.  He wears the look I think my own brother would wear if placed in such an outfit and made to pose.  I would be scared of a child wearing this look, frankly.  On that note, the image seems to imply that a sort of authority figure, the one presumably taking the photo, has forced this little boy into this situation.   That presumed child-adult scenario playing out in this image, however, is almost overshadowed by the persona the boy takes on in this costume and accompanied attitude.  His stance, smoothed hair, and young face give him a Peter Pan-esk look.  The costume feminizes him a bit, and my impression is that he’s angry about it.  He’s angry at the adult who stands just behind the camera.In Krogh’s image, the children wear costumes in a much different way.  They, too, remind me of Peter Pan, but for a different reason.  They appear like the lost boys, almost, like boys lost in childhood without parents, maybe.  Three of the four boys in this image are very tall, as if on the cusp of adulthood.  But all four remain very obviously children.  These costumes, too, are extremely nonsensical in that it is hard for my adult-trained mind to give names to any of the beings that these children have become.  In contrast to the Harlequin, too, these nonsensical costumes suggest that perhaps the children created their own costumes.  Perhaps they truly embody a Peter Pan-ness that frees them from adult-set categories or already-established costumes.  Another significant aspect of this image is that these children’s costumes are built, to a certain degree, from nature.  One boy is wearing an animal slung across his chest while another hangs a fish from a poll, for example.  One could say that this image, therefore, embodies a sort of Rousseauian ideal of nurturing the child in nature.  I would agree with that to a certain extent, but more so I would argue that this image suggests that these children are nurturing themselves “nonsensically” to the adult world, doing what they please in the context of the natural world.The settings of both images, too, are significant.  Krogh’s costumed children stand in a doorway, seemingly outsiders to the house, to the domestic sphere where parents and rules reign.  The outside world, nature, perhaps, is juxtaposed to the domestic sphere, depicted as the blue and black backdrop to the children.  This depiction, I think, suggests that these children come from the unknown, the world that exists outside of the societally accepted one where parents reign over their children and work to mold them, to costume them how they please.  The Harlequin image, too, mixes the ideas of domesticity and whatever exists beyond, I think.  The image’s backdrop is one of an old building which nature seems to be overtaking.  I say that with a grain of salt, however, as the pile of sticks in the left hand corner of the image is just that, a pile.  Humans pile sticks and lean them against walls in that way.  While the Krogh image allows both nature and the children to appear utterly undomesticated, this Harlequin image domesticates or controls both nature and the child.  The costumed child sort of parallels the dressed or molded natural elements.  Both nature and the child, in this image, are controlled.To continue, the titles of both pieces are also significant.  “Harlequin” is defined as “a mute character in traditional pantomime, typically masked and dressed in a diamond-patterned costume” known as a stock character from Italian theatre (dictionary).  This superimposes the idea of a character with an already established role to play over the child.  I therefore interpret this connection as a suggestion that the adult figure in this child’s life is attempting to give him a role to play in the world, to mold him, to make him a mute clown, to strip him of the personal freedom that the children in the Krogh painting seem to maintain.  Contrarily, Krogh’s painting is untitled.  To me, the lack of a title suggests an investment in the child’s imagination and in the audience’s imagination, too.  Krogh does not give a name to the children’s nonsensical appearance because to do so would be to contradict the image, to superimpose the adult world over the free children.  Both Clergue’s Harlequin and Krogh’s untitled piece associate children with wildness.  Harlequin seems to suggest that a child’s wildness is not easily tamed, not easily muted, noted particularly in the child’s glare at the photographer.  The untitled piece seems to suggest that, apart from a domestic space, a child is wild, is creative, is nonsensical, and is aggressive even (see the dead animals.)  The fact that both images deal with costumes, too, implies that neither of these scenarios actually depicts the natural child.  It is when a costume is removed that we see the true, natural being emerge. Therefore, both images leave the real essence of childhood as mysterious to adults as the concept of Peter Pan.  And I think that is how it should be. That room filled with schizophrenics, Oprah, love-obsessed senior citizens, Michael Jackson and Dracula seemed to open a door unseen by anyone but him.  To a spectator, it seemed as if he fell away from the critical high school world and into one he and the people around him would create.  By day, he was Graham Key… by Improv Club he was anything and everything he wanted to be.	Since its inception, Improv Club has been a hot spot for a unique group of kids.  Leaders of the club now realize that the nature of improv-actors’ fun- allows for greater possibilities than understood last year.  With the opening of the school year’s curtain comes a new role for Stoney Creek’s Improv Club to play.  From the initiation of new student presidents to a now limited number of skilled players accepted through an audition process, Stoney’s Improv Club is becoming a more notable and competitive club.	With the amount of talent portrayed in last year’s Improv Club, it’s no wonder leaders are thickening the plot. “Kids I didn’t expect to really floored me; I was amazed at the characters that they had created and sometimes I laughed harder during improv than all year,” Todd Miesch, supervisor of the club, said. 	The purpose of Improv Club seems to be to provide a stage on which any emotion can come alive in any character at any time in any place.  Wherever the moment takes the actor, the actor goes.  One moment may lead to the Louvre in Paris and the next to a subway in New York City.   A Vietnam veteran, then a professional tap dancer. Tranquility and then insanity.	The club’s plan of showcasing its talent for the first time in a partner performance with the One Act Play will allow an audience to witness this everyday phenomenon. Jillian Hoffman, a student leader, said that the club had plans of representing Stoney Creek in a way like never before.  Apparently, a head to head battle with the highly acclaimed Improv Club of Rochester High School may be in the club’s script for the year.	Advocating for the club, Hoffman explained that with all of the pressures of student life in and outside of school, they need a place to let go. She said that Improv club provides an afterschool social outlet where students can literally become whoever they want be as the club can be home to many characters. Of auditions, Hoffman said that the leaders aren’t looking for stars, just for people who feed off of each other well to create the scene and inspire the laughter.	Looking toward the club’s opening number, freshman Graham Key both likes and dislikes the prospect of auditioning for Improv Club.  Though it won’t be open to all, a characteristic he is sorry to see disappear this year, it will become “more professional,” Key said, an attribute which will further esteem the club.  For his audition, Key will be performing a monologue from Woody Allen’s Take the Money and Run.I lived in the same house, in the same town from first grade until twelfth grade.  Twelve years, one house.  One home.  But this year I left. I went to college to grow up.  I went away from the backyard where Dad taught me how to kick a soccer ball far into the neighbor’s garden, away from the living room, away from my brother in his armchair and the sports announcers’ voices, and away from my bed and the dogs who would hog all the covers.  Away from home.  I cried when I hugged my mom for the last time before moving, saying, “I don’t want to leave home.”  My mom cried when I visited my house a couple months later and said, “Shoot, I left my backpack at home,” referring to my dorm room in Ann Arbor.   	As humans, we are programed to be conditioned, to be shaped by our surroundings.  We are programed to be encultured by the society around us, by our parents, by what we grow up “knowing” to be true.  It starts right at birth when our parents bring us home from the hospital.  We immediately begin to be conditioned into our “homes.”  According to Yi-Fu Tuan, “the first environment an infant explores is his parent” (Jackson 1995: 121).   I grew up watching my dad go running every other morning.  Soon I wanted to too, and now I do.  I learned to do by example.  Parents are the “who” we are conditioned to, but what about the “what” or the “where”?  In the ideas of Gaston Bachelard, for us in the western world, “the house [is] our ‘first universe’… it shelters our daydreaming, cradles our thoughts and memories, and provides us with a sense of stability” (Jackson 1995: 86).  By this logic, it is not surprising that we grow up thinking of “home” as a building which houses our parents, perhaps.  But perhaps the only real reason we regard this building as a “home” is that we were conditioned, trained, or encultured to do so right alongside all of the other westernized, globalized children.  But just as we can be conditioned, we can also condition ourselves.  We humans, as a species, are capability of redefining, or un-defining what has been defined for us.  If we so desire, we can uproot that globalized definition of “home” in order to define it for ourselves. 	But before we can efficiently uproot anything, we need to find the roots of this powerful, western, globalized definition of “home.”  Though the seeds may have come somewhere else long ago, let us focus on the first roots planted here, in America, as a sort of point of reference or model of a possible beginning. We westerners started building a home in America only a few hundred years ago.  From Europe we brought with us the idea that people “own” the land and that land must be productive.  We thought of land rights, of sectioning off pieces of land, and of distributing it.  We thought of using the land and all it had to offer (discussion, April 7, 2013).   We thought of money.  We were detached from the land and thought of ourselves as an entity separate from it, an entity that needed roofs over our heads to shelter ourselves from the unknown wilds of America.  We were new, different, and more powerful than the Natives and since that initial distinction was made, “invidious distinctions between us and them are [now] customarily promulgated in the West” (Jackson 1995: 62).	We made, and still make, distinctions and classifications.  The English language itself assumes distinctions that, perhaps, do not actually exist.  In his novel At Home in the World Michael Jackson notes that we use nouns in some instances where verbs might be more in-tune with reality.  Unlike English, the Hopi language classifies “lightning, stormcloud, and flame as verbs because they are transitory” (Jackson 1995: 6).  Similarly, in the Nooka language, “you don’t say ‘house, “ but ‘it houses’…” (Jackson 1995: 6).  The very language we speak conditions us to be predisposed to thinking in a certain way.  Maybe we can begin to uproot.  Maybe the idea of “home” is then more about somewhere that “houses” instead of the physical “house.”	But to further understand, let us continue to think about our houses.  In order to have a house, what do we need?  Money.  Just as we have been conditioned to think of house as home, we have also been conditioned to think of money as necessity.  Without money, we would have no house, no home, is the conditioned misconception we are left with.  As he describes in his novel, Jackson made a home for himself among the Walpiri, an Australian aboriginal people.  According to Zack, one of Jackson’s Walpiri friends, “Gold is the whitefella’s Dreaming,” (Jackson 1995: 91).  In other words, gold or money is what guides the lives of the white men who descended upon native Walpiri lands.  Jackson goes on to say that “gold is both a material thing and a metaphor.  Good as gold.  Worth its weight in gold.  The gold mean” (Jackson 1995: 92).   Gold, gold, gold.  Money, money, money.  We live our lives from day to day to make money.  We go to grueling school to get a job to make money to buy this house that is, supposedly, a home.  But what is money, really?  Without the ideas which society has conditioned us to believe, money is just a piece of paper.  One we can easily rip, no less.  By the same token, a house is just a building.  One we can un-build.  	But now let us look more closely at the Walpiri, a people who westernized people have classified as a “them.”  As the Walpiri are also humans, they too are programmed to be conditioned, programmed to be encultured.  But how different their culture is from ours.  Walpiri do not grow up being conditioned to houses but rather to the natural world.  According to Jackson, “…Aboriginal belief [is] that children were born of a place as well as of human parents, that each person is an incarnation of a landscape” (Jackson 1995: 16).  They do not grow up being conditioned primarily by their parents, but rather by the community. Each Walpiri person is born into one of eight skin groups, a sort of lucid classification system which basically means “…every person [is] related to every other person in a determinate way” (Jackson 1995: 20-21).    By this sort of interconnected web of people, all people of a certain other skin group are considered your “fathers,” all people of a certain other skin group your “mothers,” etc.  But this interconnected web does not include only people.  As each person is “an incarnation of a landscape,” nature also holds an important spot on this web.  A tree can be a father, for example, and according to Sam, one of Jackson’s aboriginal friends, “We call the country mother” (Jackson 1995: 22).  	So what can we define as the Walpiri’s notion of “home?”  Jackson describes his friend and important aboriginal leader, Pincher’s house as “more of a storeroom than a dwelling” (Jackson 1995:31).  So, if not a house, then what?  Perhaps it is the word “definition” itself that hinders our attempt to understand the Walpiri notion of “home.”  There is not definition.  Perhaps it lies somewhere in their concept of the “Dreaming” which, based on a culmination of all of Jackson’s novel, seems to mean a sort of unity between land, people, and time.  But that is not a definition. It, too, has no “definition.”  See, when Jackson asked Pincher whether home was in the Dreaming or in the house, though, “Pincher understandably ignored it” (Jackson 1995: 35).	So, yes, “our” culture and “theirs” each shape very different members of the same species.  However, with globalization comes a new, mixed sort of enculturation… or assimilation, rather.  White Australians tried to teach Aborigines their defined ways.  But, as each culture is so different, just as the whites could not understand the Aborigines’ ways, the Aborigines could not understand the whites’ ways, could not force themselves to fit into such a closed system having come from a polarized, open one.  So, white Australians decided that Aborigines needed to learn the ways of the “civilized.”  They took Aboriginal children from their families to be encultured and raised into white society (Jackson 1995: 11).  They gave them a house to call home.  But why is our western system of houses and money and property better?  Is it just because we are the more powerful, more globalized group?	Before we define an answer, let us look at another “them.”  Let us look at the natives of Tanzania.  The documentary Darwin’s Nightmare showed children sleeping on the streets, people fighting over small amounts of food, women forced into prostitution, among many other scenes that words could not do justice to.  There is a famine in Tanzania and yet the fish caught by its natives feeds 2 million Europeans every day (Darwin’s Nightmare 2004).  The natives of Tanzania are conditioned to live with this hypocrisy for no reason other than that they have to.  The only work people seem to be able to get is through the fishing industry feeding this hypocrisy.  In the office of one of the fishing companies, in fact, a sign read “You’re part of the big system.”  To heighten this real-life drama, though, is the fact that the fish being caught are an invasive species to Tanzania’s Lake Victoria.  It is called Nile Trout and was introduced to the lake by a foreigner who was, perhaps, trying to globalize the lake.  And the fish ate everything.  All native species are now gone.  Biodiversity is erased and the Tanzanians are left to survive on this one species which, when it dies out, will leave them with no way to sustain themselves (Darwin’s Nightmare 2004).  The root of the problem?  Money.  Money we need to build our houses and to define our lives on material items.	Can we really say that our system, a system that exploits natural resources and focuses on earning money is the best system?  We westerners, in a way, are like this destructive fish.  We eat, we take, and we consume the natural resources of our lands and the lands of other people.  We exploit and we earn money so that we can build the houses that define our lives, which define our homes. We globalize and destroy the diversity of the world’s people.  If we continue our ways, if we do not uproot our conditioned ideas, we will leave the world to maintain itself with only an unsustainable monoculture standing behind it.  We are capable of un-defining what has been defined for us, and we must.  It is our turn to borrow the Walpiri notions of a universal “home” amongst people and the land. 	After his time spent with the Walpiri, Jackson wrote that to be “at home in the world… is to experience a complete consonance between one’s own body and the body of the earth.  Between self and other.  It little matters whether the other is a landscape, a loved one, a house, or an action.”  I realize that my home here in college has become exactly that.  My home is now a relationship between my friends here, my family at home, and the world around me.  Without knowing it, I uprooted that solid “definition” of home.  Now, instead of a defined “something,” home is where, why, and how I am happy.  It is how I survive.The first was a girl, the second a boy.  The first was born on January 25, the second on February 2.  It was 1882.  Society meant nothing to this girl and this boy.  They were infants.  How could they have known that it would kill them in the end, that it would consume them?  They didn’t.  They didn’t know, and yet each developed a grotesque relationship with society, their impending killer. This girl was author Virginia Woolf, this boy author James Joyce, and their relationship stemmed from modernism, the literary movement to which they belong. Modernism is based on the minds, the nerves, and the ways of people.  It is an “ethnic community of thought,” a division between “psychological time and clock time,” and, most importantly, “a result of the urban environment” (Everdell 4-9).  So, in a sense, as authors they were specialists in the way of interpreting the societies around them and the “results” they cause.	At the time of their births, the circumstances of these authors could not have been more different.  For starters, one was a girl born in London, England to parents rooted in the agnostic tradition (Nicolson 8). To continue, the other was a boy born in Dublin, Ireland to parents rooted in the Catholic tradition (Anderson 6). But regardless of their different origins, their societies proceeded to destroy the world around them.  Depression and then mental illness consumed the lives of both Woolf and Joyce (Nicolson 50; Anderson 64).   But because they were modernist writers, because their material came from the mind and society’s affect on it, readers of their stories, like Woolf’s novel Mrs. Dalloway and Joyce’s short story “The Dead,” can watch as their minds crumble under a common societal weight. Thus, society’s universal ability to deplete the human psyche is exposed by its parallel affects on the lives of Joyce and Woolf in spite of their divergent backgrounds and social circumstances.	To begin, the common practices of their societies, while different, led to comparable afflictions on the young authors’ psyches. For example, when Woolf was a child, her society’s dejection of the mentally impaired guided her father to send her “deranged” half sister to live in a mental ward where she eventually died (Nicolson 2).  At the same time, Joyce’s Catholic society guided his family’s growth to continue “increasing in size as fast as it declined” in fortune.  As a result, one of his baby siblings died and others were stillborn (Anderson 8).  In addition, Woolf grew up with half brothers who made it habit to satisfy their curiosities by sexually abusing her.  One time, one brother “lifted her onto a table and, out of curiosity, put his hand under her skirt...” (Nicolson 11). Comparably, Joyce and his brother were once sexually assaulted by an old man while walking the streets of Dublin.  Apparently, the old man “went off into the field and did something that frightened the boys,” and this, unfortunately, was just a preview for Joyce of the events to come upon entering his Catholic preparatory school (Anderson 6).   Therefore, the grievances caused by these authors’ differing societies were showing similar notions of the impending mental destruction right from the very beginning.	To go in another direction, one that affected the authors after childhood, society’s separate gender-related burdens assisted the depletion of both the male Joyce’s and the female Woolf’s psyche.  As mentioned by critic Laura Marcus in the article “Woolf’s Feminism and Feminism’s Woolf,” due to the universal culture at the time of Joyce’s and Woolf’s lives, some women, including Woolf herself, believed in “social feminism” or “the belief that women’s values and skills, whether innate or culturally constructed, are excluded in male-dominated societies.”  In an attempt to offset this curve in society, the article says that women like Woolf placed an “emphasis on education and experience as the necessary conditions for women’s cultural and intellectual life” (Marcus 212-213).  Woolf spent her younger life craving this, craving an education, but it was denied her by the tradition-oriented, male-dominated society.  But, while male, Joyce too was a victim of the tradition-oriented, male-dominated society.  He was sent to Clongowes Wood College, a Catholic preparatory school in Ireland.  After returning from school, Joyce is recorded as having said, “you have the cursed, jesuit stain in you, only it’s injected the wrong way,” of his experiences at school.  With disgust in his mind, he later left this church as it was oriented in a male-dominated tradition with which he disagreed (Anderson 13-14).  Thus, both authors were left plagued by a society grooved in a tradition.	Similarly, society’s dysfunctional image of the way a relationship between a man and a woman is supposed to work, divulged by both authors’ works and parallel life events, can be credited with the continued depletion of both authors’ psyches.  Referencing these authors’ direct words is comparable to investigating the scene of a crime as feelings surface about living their own lives within a societal structure.  To start with Joyce, in “The Dead” Gabriel Conroy, the tradition-guided young man of the story, speaks of being “...proud of her [his wife’s] grace and wifely carriage” (216).  Upon watching his wife lost in her emotion, daydreaming almost, Gabriel “longed to be master of her strange mood” (218).  In both of these examples, Joyce depicts Gabriel as yearning to play the part of “master” to a “wifely” woman.  However, after introducing this tradition-oriented side of his main character, Joyce reveals that Gretta, Gabriel’s wife, was remembering Michael Furey, a boy who suffered from a terminal illness, from her past.  In his sickness, this boy journeyed out to show Gretta that he loved her, to show her his passion for her.  Then he died (221).  Upon learning this, Gabriel feels diminished by the confinements of tradition.  He realizes that finding that passion, the passion Michael Furey had mastered, is what living is really about and that tradition is more a reflection of “the dead” than the living. The fact that someone who was already dead had felt more passion than he ever would in his tradition-led life made him feel more dead than alive (222).	Woolf’s novel Mrs. Dalloway makes similar comments on a tradition-led life.  At the onset of the novel, Clarissa Dalloway speculates about her life and the relationships that have played a part in it.  Of marriage she says “a little independence there must be...” and then juxtaposes this comment with a description of Peter, a man who once loved her and her him, but whom she never married.  She implies that she never married him because “with Peter everything had to be shared...” (7-8).  However, with her current husband, Richard, nothing is seemingly shared.  Here, like the one Joyce describes in “The Dead,” a marriage is again void of passion.  Later on in the novel, Clarissa then speculates about her relationship with Sally, a friend and lover from the past.  She says, “The stanger thing, on looking back, was the purity, the integrity, of her feeling for Sally.  It was not like one’s feeling for a man” (34).  By comparing Clarissa’s feelings on the two different relationships, it can be reasoned that the problem Clarissa has is mixing love and marriage, a societal tradition, with a man.  Her marriage is assumably void of love with Richard, therefore it works, but is not perfect.  It is only the relationship with a woman, void of societal demands, that she can define as “pure” and with “integrity.”	As both of these societal problem-filled stories parallel each respective author’s life, society can be credited as having created yet another casualty to add to the pile within the authors’ psyches: their ability to love freely.  To again start with Joyce, Michael Barnacle was the real name of Michael Furey from “The Dead.”  Gretta’s real name was Nora, Joyce’s wife.  According to a sister of Nora’s, Joyce only originally attracted Nora because he looked like this Michael Barnacle.  Furthermore, Nora became Joyce’s wife only because of a marriage that occurred twenty-one years into their relationship in order to “avoid legal problems” (Ellman 18).  He thus lived a passionless love life during which he fell into the tradition he spoke so ardently against. Correspondingly, Leonard was the real name of Richard from Mrs. Dalloway.  Sally’s real name was Vita, a woman with whom Woolf had a love affair.  “It took two years for their friendship to develop into intimacy, and three for inimacy to be acknowledged on both sides as love” wrote Vita’s son Nigel Nicolson, Woolf’s biographer.  Woolf later is recorded as having admitted that “in the end she was attracted more to women than to men because with women ‘Friendship is never untinged with amorosity’” (Nicolson 89).  She, too, thus lived a life in which she fell into society’s tradition rather than living an everyday life the way she felt most inclined to.  Society guided both of these authors to make decisions that inferably detracted from their happiness.  Thus, society killed their ability to love freely and detracted happiness from their psyches.	Yet, stinting passion was only one of the ways society depleted the authors’ psyches, as revealed in their works of literature.  With Woolf as one of the specific authors mentioned, modernist specialist William R. Everdell writes that modernist authors have been noted to “write about the world they had left behind” (285).  In a way, this is exactly what Joyce does in “The Dead” as the message he gets across is that “we can be at the same time in death as well as in life.”  This message is taken from his story by the way he notates the repetition of the Irish tradition.  He gives the same speech every year, to the same people, after carving the same goose.  In this way, Joyce is saying that tradition prevents people from experiencing new things, from living life.  “The Dead” he references in the title are actually the living people at the party who never veer from tradition (Ellman 19).  In a different yet coordinating fashion, a critic of Woolf, Susan Dick, notes that “throughout Mrs. Dalloway the focus continually shifts from the external world to the minds of the characters perceiving it” (Whitworth 52).  Especially when taking into account the way Woolf does this with her character Septimus, a man in mental demise thanks to the war-stricken society he came from, it can further be seen that boundaries between the living and the dead do not truly exist.  Septimus was lost within his mind and could not comprehend the same world that the rest of society could.  Therefore, he did not exist in the “real world” anymore.  Society killed his ability to live in it.  As modernists write about “the world they left behind,” both of these intermixings of the “dead” and the “alive” reveal a different way that society affected the respective author’s psyche and began to tear down the walls of his or her mind.	And finally, in two final moves, society conquered first Joyce and then Woolf, depleting their human psyches in their entirety.  For Joyce, society’s final move came when it plagued his daughter, Lucia, with a mental illness.  This mental illness began with Joyce’s marriage to Nora and was heightened when the marriage “gave Nora a new edge in her natural competition with Lucia for Joyce’s affections...” (Anderson 120).  His daughter’s mental illness paired with his fatherly nature brought upon his death.  According to Joyce’s bibliography, “they were both going to the bottom of a river, but Lucia was falling and Joyce was diving” in after her (Anderson 123).  Joyce died “old and sick” on January 13, 1941 (Anderson 126).  As for Woolf, society’s final move is less certain. She seemingly acted fairly normal, up until the day she died that is.  However, her novel Mrs. Dalloway offers a clue.  Toward the end of her book Woolf writes the following of Clarissa’s pondering on the death of Septimus: “She felt somehow very like him—the young man who killed himself.  She had felt glad that he had done it; thrown it away” (186).  According to literary critic Morris Beja, “In her own life, Joyce played the role of alter-ego that Septimus Smith had played for Clarissa Dalloway” (Beja 41).  To expand, Woolf is recorded, in her essay “Modern Novels,” to have characterized one of Joyce’s stories as having failed “because of the comparative poverty of the writer’s mind.”  So, if it is true that Woolf played the role of Septimus within Virginia’s life, it is possible that she “felt glad” that Joyce had escaped this life.  Though not certain, is it not possible that she made a connection between her life and Joyce’s and realized that her mind, too, was in “poverty?”  Joyce made up part of her modernist society of thought, therefore it is possible that his death was society’s final move in depleting Woolf’s human psyche, her mind.  If so, then it worked, because Woolf killed herself on March 28, 1941, a mere two-and-a-half months after Joyce’s death (Nicolson 190).   	Without jurisdiction from the differing backgrounds and social circumstances of Woolf and Joyce, society’s universal ability to deplete the human psyche is demonstrated in the parallel ways in which it depleted their spirits over a lifetime.  The scary part?  Both Woolf and Joyce acknowledged society to be a danger to one’s sanity... and still it consumed them.  In his essay “The Day of the Rabblement,” Joyce writes that “If an artist courts the favour of the multitude he cannot escape the contagion of its fetichism and deliberate self-deception and if he joins in a popular movement he does so at his own risk.”  He wrote this, and yet his mind contracted society’s contagious “fetchism,” or masking of one’s self.  Similarly, literary critic Michael Whitworth said of Woolf that “even as her novels register the psychological stresses of urban life, they celebrate its fertile possibilities.”  Her work emanated this concept and yet it’s hard to imagine that those “fertile possibilities” were still present in her mind as she threw herself into a river.  Modernism claims that the individual is “complimentary to the society in which he lives, rather as a soloist in a concerto” (Everdell 2).  How grotesquely beautiful that image is.  How grotesquely beautiful these authors’ lives were and literary works are.  They parallel each other, and yet somehow interweave. The first was a man, the second a woman. The first died on January 13, the second on March 28.  It was 1941.  Society meant everything to this man and this woman.  It killed them.  And yet this man and this woman are “at the same time in death as well in life,” because they left behind pieces of themselves, their stories, so that present-day individuals in society might not make the same mistakes as they, might delve into modernism just a little bit deeper.The Rochester Community School Board ruled to privatize their transportation and sanitation employees in order to pump out some water from a sinking budget that is $10.7 million in debt, on April 16.  Next year transportation workers from Durham School Services and custodians from GCA Education Services will take the places of Rochester Community School employees, according to Rochester Community Schools Superintendent Frederick Clarke.	“I try not to think about it right now, but it’s definitely real,” custodian Derek Elkins said of the privatization.	While every member of the custodial and transportation staffs will have an opportunity to interview for the new companies, many do not for see themselves returning to Stoney Creek.	“You just can’t live on it [the GCA Education Services compensation,]” Elkins said. “Most of us have families and, you know, we just have to move on.”	For Elkins, a step toward moving on leads him to a summer of figuring out what other job opportunities, possibly in the computer networking field, he can take advantage of in the future.  For the very near future, however, he, his wife, and his four kids will live on unemployment.	On the transportation side of the privatization spectrum, the future of bus driver Ann Tague, route 21, and her two kids is up in the air.  	“They’re not making it easy for us, that’s for sure,” Tague said with a catch in her voice. “I don’t feel good about it at all.  It’s been very painful.”	Having already interviewed and tested for a spot on the Durham School Services staff, all there is left for Tague to do is wait for either a letter or a phone call to deliver the news which, according to Tague, is “another stressful factor ‘cause none of [the custodians] know what’s going on.” 	What all custodians and transportation employees do know, however, is that their lives are about to change.  Still, they wonder whether such a change in their lives could have been avoided.	“I feel that there could have been other ways, like even if the teachers just took a five percent cut, just five percent, then none of this would have taken place,” Tague said, “but they won’t budge at all.”	But they all “gotta ride the wave,” according to Tague.	“We just gotta remember,” Tague said, “our kids are keeping us going.”

According to the district budget, the district’s weather radar, this storm has no plans of subsiding.  However, many leaders in the district have forecasts, some hopeful and some fearful, for the future.	The most immediate forecast comes from a fearful vice principal John Kelley.  	“My fear is that every time you cut something, it’s hard to get it back,” Kelley said. “And ever time we make a cut, it’ll affect someone, whether it’s a program or a person, or both.”	Another looming forecast comes from Clarke.  The focus of the district, according to Clarke, will continue to be on keeping cuts as far away from the classroom as possible.  	However, the district’s resources can only stop the storm from penetrating the the schools for as long as they last.  And with the budget in the condition that it is, Clarke knows that some of the extra, theoretically non-essential, resources may be in the danger zone.	“That’s what I’m fearing,” Clarke said, “that the next wave of cuts, or the next wave after that, is going to start hitting on some of those things that are going to have that indirect effect on instruction but a direct effect on students.”	While the surge will go on, Clarke believes that “communities like Rochester will be able to weather the storm.”  	The very impoverished districts, Clarke fears, will not be as lucky.	“And I worry. I worry about the entire state,” Clarke said. “I worry about... what types of student’s we’re going to be producing down the road, five, six, seven, eight years from now.  It’s going to be a challenge.”	Goralski, too, fears for the future of public education. 	“I just think public schools are what makes America great,” Goralski said. “My fear is that there are higher powers that would like to put public schools out of business.”	And yet, amongst all this rain, administrators also forecast a hope of improvement.	Goralski hopes to be able to instate a more flexible schedule, one that will give kids more personal opportunity and “that might end up costing a little less... that might kill two birds with one stone.”	Kelley, too, has that hope, elaborating that “some kids would be more successful if they had a little bit more flexibility, like a hybrid [class] or an online class.”Conclusion	Though some custodians and transportation workers will return, the economic storm will soon remove him from the school.  And yet he still offers up smiles from behind his zamboni after school hours.  He’s “the Duke.”  He’s Derek Elkins.  And he, along with all the other custodians and transportation workers leaving the school, will be missed.	“I think we’ll definitely miss them,” freshman Tara Lechnar said. “They’ve always been so helpful.”A first perspective:  Upon first viewing Charles Ferdinand Wimar’s painting The Attack on an Emigrant Train, the onlooker will see “pilgrims.”  He will see “newcomer[s] to a region or place, especially to the western U.S.” (Dictionary.com).  Upon first reading Annie Dillard’s novel Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, the reader will see a “pilgrim.”  He will see “a traveler or a wanderer, especially in a foreign place” (Dictionary.com). 	A second perspective:  Upon viewing the painting and reading the novel more closely, the beholder may still see “pilgrims.”  He may see “[people] who journey... to some sacred place as an act of religious devotion” (Dictionary.com).	A third perspective:  “Pilgrims” are also “settler[s] in a region” (Dictionary.com).  They integrate themselves into the land around them.  They not only observe, but also interact.  Therefore, by their use of perspective, both Wimar’s painting and Dillard’s novel work to show that while self-consciousness is “God-given,” or innate, it ironically distracts from God or the “creator” (Dillard 80).	Pilgrims journey.  The pilgrims in Wimar’s painting journey westward in a religious commitment to “Manifest Destiny--the belief that European Americans had... a Christian duty to expand throughout the North American continent” (UMMA).  At the same time, the pilgrim in Dillard’s novel (Dillard herself) journeys into nature, a nature Linda Smith, author of Annie Dillard, interprets as “the stimulus” (Smith 18) to the “un-mediated experience of the presence of God” (Smith 18).  However, Dillard only discovers this “un-mediated experience” after seeing the world, of which she is a part, from a perspective that reveals the self-aware and parasitic nature of nature (Dillard 243).  	A fourth perspective:  A parasite latches onto another being as a means of sustenance.  The bug is aware of its body’s need for food, essentially, and therefore latches on to another.  While not all beings are parasitic by nature, the same sort of idea extends to nature as a whole.  For example, Dillard illustrates “a frog being sucked by a water bug” (8).  This water bug is aware of its body’s need for food and therefore eats the frog from the inside out.  If a being is hungry, it will eat.  Thus, self-awareness or self-consciousness is a God-given, innate quality that determines survival.  Of this self-aware nature of nature, Dillard says:  “We want it; we take it out of each other’s hides; we chew the bitter skins the rest of our lives” (243). The irony prevails.	A fifth perspective:  The emigrants face away from the sun (Wimar).  It is sunrise in Wimar’s painting.  As the image depicts “westward expansion,” the sun is in the east.  The emigrants move away from this sunrise and cast shadows forward onto the land they explore and onto the people they encounter.  As shadows are, in a way, projections of the beings that cast them, it can be interpreted that Wimar’s painting encompasses the idea that the emigrants cast projections of their Christian selves onto the beings in front of them, onto the natives.  The emigrants are self-aware, they understand their own religion to such an extent that it casts a shadow, a lack of understanding onto the spirituality of the natives they desire to convert.  	A sixth perspective:  The natives face the sun (Wimar).  It can be interpreted that in Wimar’s painting the sun symbolizes enlightenment or unity with the “creator.”  As the natives face the sun while the emigrants do not, it can be interpreted that Wimar suggests that the natives’ lesser degree of self-consciousness is more in-tuned with the ideas of the creator.  They attack not out of a desire to convert, a desire to project themselves onto the emigrants, but out of a desire to protect their own beliefs.  To further advance this idea, two natives in this painting have been shot by the emigrants.  Both, in this painting’s moment, are dying.  These two natives, during this moment in which death and life unite, die with their torsos facing upward, as if embracing the sky, the sun, and, presumably, the creator.  Juxtaposed to these natives is the wounded emigrant dying in the shadow of the cart.  Thus, less self-awareness leads to a higher degree of unity with the creator.	A seventh perspective:  Annie Dillard writes that she “[has] never understood why so many mystics of all creeds experience the presence of God on mountaintops.  Aren’t they afraid of being blown away?” (Dillard 90).  Here, Dillard means “blown away” in a very literal sense.  Why does the mystic on top of a mountaintop project his God onto the mountaintop and onto the world he sees from it?  Presumably from the desire to qualify what he sees, right?  To qualify his own existence and to qualify the existence of the God that will bring him his salvation.  Dillard points out that by committing one’s self to this abstraction, a man forgets about the wind, the tangible qualities of the place where he stands (90).	An eighth perspective:  “It often feels best to lay low, inconspicuous, instead of waving your spirit around from high places like a lightning rod” (90).  It is here that Dillard forces her reader to step back from the self-consciousness that is faith to the grander consciousness that is the reality of the mountain.  Waving one’s spirt around, attempting to project it onto beings other than one’s self, is surely dangerous.  Wimar’s painting is proof.  The emigrants wave their spirits around, allowing self-consciousness to distract from seeing the rest of the world, from seeing God.  This lack of seeing leads to the natives’ attack.  In this painting, lightning strikes.  	A ninth perspective:  To contrast with the self-aware mountain-top worshiper, Dillard describes a moment at a gas station petting a puppy and watching a mountain, “[her] mind.. a blank slab of black asphalt for hours” (79).  She feels the world around her, leaving herself out of the picture.  But soon the allusion of sorts ends, because she acknowledges “this awareness in [her] brain” (80).  She then realizes that “the one thing that all religions recognize as separating us from our creator--our very self-consciousness--is also the one thing that divides us from our fellow creatures” (80).  Thus, can it not also be interpreted that the nature of the creator exists in “our fellow creatures?”	A tenth perspective:  According the Christianity, the nature of our creator has existed in “our fellow creatures” quite explicitly.  Jesus was the human incarnation of God, of the creator.  Within the cart of Wimar’s painting sits a woman.  This woman holds a baby and looks directly into the eye of the observer, into the eye of the painting (Wimar).  She resembles the Virgin Mary, mother of baby Jesus.  Her accusing stare suggests a connection with the outside world.  The way she shields the baby suggests an aversion to the ongoing fight, suggests that she sees it as a threat to her baby, her baby that will one day show the world, by example, that God exists in all beings.  He is the explicit link to God within one of “our fellow creatures.”  Thus, the baby is linked to the natives and to all other beings.  Perhaps the painting suggests that God exists innately in all beings and that only a removal of self-consciousness and a replacement of universal-consciousness, an acceptance of all beings, will paint the full picture of the creator.	Perhaps the pilgrimage necessary to finding God is not an internal journey, but an external one.  Perhaps beings are meant to “experience God by completely emptying the mind and the soul” (Smith 18).  Perhaps to experience the outside world is to experience God.Somehow, he claims her most.  What is he doing on the stained brick-yellow pillow below her shoe?  Will she step on him once her shoe buckles?  Will she pick him up or is he dropped for good?   I think his name was Ozzie, but it doesn’t matter much now.  Now that he got too small and his proportions are off.  Most teddy bears are large enough for a little one’s arms to go around only once... but maybe it was she who grew.  She grew and now her arms could spin round and round that bear like a twister.  But that isn’t feasible, so he stays laying there, on his back with his arms open wide.  His name was Ozzie and still he waits for a hug that is not coming.  I take that back, the sole of the dirty shoe might do. 	The sole of that shoe resting on that stained brick-yellow pillow was made for walking, made for exploring. When this girl traveled last, she traveled not by wand but by shoe--by plain, ordinary, black shoe.  She walked not along the paved, clean, possibly yellow bricked roads, but along reality’s dirty streets.  She walked to see what she could, to learn.  Those dirtied soles prove it.  	Two hands ready her feet to walk again.  One sock up and folded neatly.  One shoe buckled.  Strange that she wears that white shirt of hers as she readies, though.  The dust those walking soles will kick up could turn it dark and the rain could stain.  This could happen, or that... but maybe circumstance will leave it innocent.  Or maybe she could bleach it back.    	Two hands will soon ready her hair--will braid the final braid and tie the final ribbon.  But wait.  Maybe those two hands will instead unbraid the first braid and untie the first ribbon.  I guess I do not know...  I do not know this girl.  	What I do know is that this girl is at an “in-between.”  She is not yet complete.  One shoe unbuckled, one sock un-straightened.  How young she appears at first glance:  One braid still in.  One ribbon, one blue-checkered ribbon,  still bowed.  Maybe she plans to take out that braid and that blue-checkered ribbon.  I wonder how much older she would look then, how much wiser?  Regardless, she is a Dorothy in transition.	A Dorothy in transition...so who is the Dorothy, the one seeking the green magician?  Who is the girl with that blue checkered dress, those ruby slippers, and that little dog too?  I do not know... I do not know that girl either.  What I do know is that at one time she was in Oz and that at one time she learned that a brain, a heart, and courage were all to be found within herself and her idea of “home.”  What I do know is that she journeyed to Oz for self discovery.  While I do not know that girl, she sings that I can find her “where troubles melt like lemon drops a way above the chimney tops” (Arlen).  	Melting troubles.  Lemon drops.  Innocence.  Dorothy projects innocence.  Can’t you just hear it in her “Oh no!”?  Can’t you just see it in her wide eyes and those little shakes of her head?  But why does she project this innocence? 	Randall Auxier and Phil Seng, authors of Popular Culture and Philosophy:  Wizard of Oz and Philosophy say that Dorothy lives in “...blissful ignorance of the deeper evils of the world” (Auxier 227).  They say that Dorothy is not a “worldly” person (227).  She is not “cultured or well-travelled” (227).  They say that there is another “worldliness eluding Dorothy... the same [worldliness] eluding all young persons before they’ve encountered larger realities, experiences occasioning deep loss, such as death and sudden displacement” (227).  	Huh.  This is the perception.  This is, arguably, how the larger world sees Dorothy:  She is innocent.  She is not worldly.  To her, Kansas is the world.  That is it.  Auxier and Seng disqualify her as a “worldly” person, as a knowledgeable person, as a cultivated person, because she supposedly lacks the experience of “deep loss.”  In their eyes, she knows happiness and stability under the love of her aunt and uncle, but she does not know the other side of the spectrum.  Auxier and Seng’s seem to believe that just as she knows only Kansas, she knows only happiness as well.  Thus, they pair her lack of experience with a lack of understanding.  I worry that other readers of her book or viewers of her movie have done the same thing as Auxier and Seng.  I worry that others call her lucky, say “ignorance is bliss,” and then brand her as “ignorant.”	Do “ignorant” and “innocent” go together?  Sometimes I wonder if “innocent” is the friendly-people way of meaning “ignorant.”  I wonder.  I wonder if her “innocent” demeanor, her goodly voice and its drawn out “Oh no!” help lead people to their categorization of Dorothy as “ignorant.”	Because she is not.  In fact, “the deeper evils of the world” nurtured Dorothy into becoming who she is, just as parents do... Where are her parents?  They either died or left.  Probably died.  How in the world Kansas is the death of both parents not considered one of “the deeper evils of the world”?  Irrefutably by moral standards, to grow up knowing one’s parents have died is to grow up knowing a great evil.  Ask any child in this situation.  Or don’t ask--see it in their eyes.	I want to be clear and acknowledge that I make this argument not to agree that one must know the deeper evils of the world in this way in order to be worldly qualified.  No, I say this to wonder whether Dorothy’s innocent demeanor led to these somewhat false accusations, these somewhat false perceptions, this branding of what exists within her as “ignorant.”  Perhaps she is not ignorant.  Regardless, somehow the terms are related.  	By dictionary.com, “ignorant” is defined as “uninformed; unaware” (Dictionary.com).  Conversely, and I mean conversely,  “innocent” is defined as “free from moral wrong...pure” (Dictionary.com).  Does purity only stem from being unaware?  No, I do not think so.  I think the terms are mutually exclusive.  At least, I really hope they are.	Photographer Cindy Sherman inspired this self-portrait.  Yes, this is me.  And still I maintain that I do not know this girl.  See, I took this photo for you.  I took this photo to try and alter the way you see me.  Because sometimes you don’t see past my white shirt.  Again, I took this photo to try and alter the way you see me.  But this is not how I see myself.  I will never be able to define how I see myself.  I will not.  Because I would be deceitful if I tried.  I am the only person who really knows what I am, who I am.  And I refuse to define that what and who.  Because I cannot.  Because I am dynamic.  Because I change--every second it seems.  Because if I gave you a definition now, it would be different in five minutes.  This inability to define is frustrating for me, too.  To people who try to define me, I nod and understand.  But I never believe.	Again, photographer Cindy Sherman inspired my self-portrait.  Simon Hattenstone, author of the article “Cindy Sherman:  Me, myself and I,” said that Sherman “took photos of herself that were anything but self-portraits... her camera always lied” (Hattenstone).  This seems to be the common perception.  Cindy Sherman’s self, her essence is not in her photographs.  She is an actor embodying somebody else, somebody other than her.  I disagree.	To define what she is not, in a way, defines what she is.  Do we have the authority to do that?  Do we have the authority to define Cindy Sherman?  The “Cindy Sherman” chapter in the book Lives of The Artists by Calvin Tomkins says that Sherman used to dress up to go to work, but that “she stopped doing it because, she said, she was afraid of losing her street identity...” (Tomkins 30).  That raises the question of how she defines her own “self.”  Her “street identity” is probably not how she sees her own self.  The article also says that she is shy, that she is very nice, and that, according to Janelle Reiring, “it’s very hard to get her to say what she wants” (Tomkins 37).  Maybe she does not know what she wants.  Maybe she is playing with her identity in the sense that she does not really define her own self.  Maybe she acknowledges change and the influence of the rest of the world.  Maybe her self is not actually “present” in any of her photos because she, too, refuses to define herself.  Maybe we are similar.  But if she does not define herself, how can others claim the ability to do so?  Others do not have that authority.  Maybe shards of who she is, what she associates with, what she believes exist in some of her photos.  Maybe shards of her self exist in her images.  Maybe not.	But pieces of my self do exist in this image.  Pieces of my “street identity” exist.  Pieces of my “street identity” exist as they lead to how you sometimes see me:  the white, innocent shirt, the girlish braid and bow, the teddy bear.  Sometimes the first word you use to define me is “innocent.”  From babyhood to childhood to teenage-hood to adulthood, you have always termed me “innocent.”  According to you, I, like Dorothy, project innocence.  You say:  “Can’t you just hear it in your high voice?  Can’t you just see it in the way your eyes get wide when someone swears?”  Disclaimer:  I say swear words when necessary, thank you very much.  And when you tell me that I’m “innocent” it becomes just about necessary.  Because you see only my “street identity.”  You see only the me I don’t know how not to project to the world.  You don’t see me how I see myself.  But instead of the “How the hell do you know?” that I’m sometimes thinking, I usually just nod and understand.  Because that’s what I do.  And somehow you’re right.  But I wonder what you mean.  And again, I never believe.		Dorothy projects innocence and I wonder if that led to people’s perception of her as “ignorant.”  I wonder that about myself, too.  The boy who lives down the hall from me said this to me the other day:  “You’re almost self-sheltering, in a way.  You choose not to see the bad things in the world.”  I do not think he meant this as an insult.  Still, I defended what’s mine.  Somehow the conversation hovered around the facts that my mom’s my best friend and that I recycle a lot.  But I think I surprised him when we agreed that you can’t know real love without real pain and that “the bad things in the world” are important.  As I do not define myself explicitly, I do not dismiss what he said.  Still, I do not believe it either.	Auxier and Seng, I think, were wrong when they termed Dorothy as “blissfully ignora[nt] of the deeper evils...”  She projected innocence, but she was not ignorant.  “Street identities” do not correlate to selves.  Again, I took this picture for you.  I worked as an actor, embodying the me I need you to acknowledge.  I wore my walking shoes.  I wore the walking shoes that dispel ignorance, the walking shoes that have seen some and desire to see more.  I wore the walking shoes equipped for travel, for learning about “the deeper evils of the world” and “the bad things in the world.”  I wore my walking shoes because in my life I walk to learn.	And I took out a braid and may soon take out the next one.  I may soon cast the blue checkers aside entirely.  Because the black checkers deserve prominence.  I see the rising tides around the world--a loss of the shore and homes.  I see the men on the street--a loss of jobs and homes.  I see the eyes of the friend whose mother has died--the loss of not a house but a home.  I mourn for the loss of those homes.  Dorothy journeyed to rediscover the home she too had lost.  But while she journeyed for self-discovery, I journey for world-discovery.  I journey to learn and I took this picture for you.  I want you to acknowledge it.  I want you to acknowledge that I walk in the world, that I walk to see and that while maybe I am innocent in your eyes, I am not ignorant.  	Dorothy found her home.  She just had to click her heals three times and believe.  I think I found mine too.  You can say I’m lucky, but don’t say it’s because “ignorance is bliss.”  I’m lucky because while learning is not always bliss it makes me thankful for that home, that home that somehow defines me.  While I may not ever believe a specific definition of myself to be true, I do believe that the way he claims me most says something about me.  Maybe it’s that I’m innocent.  Maybe it’s something else.  His name is Teddy and I would never step on him once my walking shoe buckles.  I did not grow to a different proportion.  My arms still wrap around my teddy bear once.  		Alice was sitting “idly” by the pond with her sister at this story’s onset.  Some adults may also argue that jumping willingly into a rabbit’s hole for curiosity’s sake is considered nothing but “mischievous.”  I disagree, and I think Lewis Carroll just might too.	In chapter two of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Carroll parodies Isaac Watt’s poem “Against Idleness and Mischief,” so I’d like to look at both Carroll’s parody and the original in order to try to draw some conclusions, or possibilities, rather, about Carroll’s beliefs on education, on the value of experience and even on curiosity.	Now, as Watts’s title itself gives away, Watts believes that “Satan finds some mischief” for children who do not keep busy “In Books, or work, or healthful Play.”  But in the place of Watts’s dutiful “little busy Bee,” Carroll writes about “the little crocodile.”  Now, while bees are “busy,” crocodiles seem to sit and bath until it’s time to eat.  But speaking of eating, Carroll’s poem focuses on how a crocodile finds food just as a bee makes food.  In the natural world, crocodiles can’t make their own food but rather they must catch it.  Maybe Carroll is suggesting that finding the knowledge that curiosity lures a child to is just as good a way to learn as making a child study poems and timetables.  Watts uses the Bee as a natural example of how to be dutiful and worker-like for children, but Carroll points out that other natural examples exist, too (though, I don’t know that Carroll was imploring children to be the crocodile.  I think she was, however, prodding their curiosity with this new natural metaphor.)	One of the effects of this inversion of ideas is Carroll’s implied suggestion that there’s something to be said for a child’s happiness and enjoyment of life outside of the sphere or work and education, I think.  While Watts’s Bee “skillfully” works, Carroll’s crocodile “cheerfully” smiles.  This implication seems especially true in the context of Alice’s story.   Carroll’s story delves into the mind of the child, the imagination of the child, the (excuse the cliché!) out-of-the-box thinking of a child and here juxtaposes it to the Lockian idea of shaping the child by making her recite poetry, learn her times tables, and learn her geography.  By doing this, Carroll points out that children can learn in their own more magical, more natural, more Rousseauian ways, too, without having to fret about knowledge as Alice does in this passage.   Day job.  Cups and signs. Outstretched hands of raggedly clothed baby props.  The signs catch eyes and the cups catch change.  The cups catch change given with love and the intention of clothing a baby.  But the hand that holds the sign has a different intention—a desire.  A desire to quench her thirst for alcohol.  The baby remains naked and the mother becomes drunk.	Concern means involvement.  If we have a thin understanding of what our concern stems from, we have a thin understanding of what the problem’s roots grasp at. Our involvement can then become the seeds of another problem.  Martin Luther King, Junior said, “Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will.”  Because shallow understanding from people of good will confuses the objective, it counteracts good intentions more than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will does.	One such prototype occurs when two parties have the same intended goal, but thanks to a misunderstanding from at least one of the parties, the common intention nullifies.  A general example of this idea can be found in politics today in the goal shared by both democrats and republicans.  The goal of improving the economy.  A common goal exists, but the way in which to achieve it is disagreed upon, so the fight for a better economy is hindered.  Similarly, in Public Statement by Eight Alabama Clergymen, the clergymen made statements that insulted and separated themselves from King.  Referring to King’s peaceful demonstrations for desegregation, one such statement said, “We further strongly urge our own Negro community to withdraw support from these demonstrations…”  By announcing this type of criticism of a person with their same goal of desegregation, they are creating a weakness, a break in what could otherwise be a strong chain.  King understood that in order to win the battle, all in favor of desegregation had to unite.  In his rebuttal to the clergymen’s statement, Letter from a Birmingham Jail, he said, “Let us hope that… the deep fog of misunderstanding will be lifted… [and] the radiant stars of love and brotherhood will shine.”  His “stars” refer not only to the elimination of segregation, but more importantly to this rebuttal, to the sanction of a conjoined effort and the removal of such a hindrance to their cause.  Another prototype of good will that counteracts intentions occurs when people act passionately without a full understanding of the problem.  This idea reflects in everyday mistakes.  For example, imagine that a group of children is playing with silly string.  One little boy stands in the corner wearing a frown where a smile could be.  One girl with a can of silly string decides to include the little boy thinking that the feeling of being left out is what weighs down his mouth.  Turns out he’s scared of silly string and the girl’s good will made everything worse.In drawing up the floor-plan for the United States of America, John Adams took his knowledge of human nature and anticipated this same flaw within future governments.  He said, “…I fear that in every assembly, members will obtain an influence by noise and not sense…By ignorance, not learning.  By contracted hearts, not large souls…” (McCullough 106).  Thus, Adams’ philosophy on human nature deems passionate intentions influenced by “noise” to be natural yet counteractive.  The opposite prototype, when people with good will do not act according to their good will due to a lack of understanding, also counteracts intentions.  Again, in Letter from a Birmingham Jail, King describes the moderate white man as agreeing that change needs to occur… just at a later time.  So, the moderate white man does not act.  To this, King says that “time itself becomes an ally of the forces of social stagnation.”  He explains that time is neutral and that not using it amounts only to rust.  The people who misunderstand time’s role in social change (which is essentially no role at all) do not act, so they allow reform to halt thus nullifying good intentions.The argument that absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will counteracts good intentions more so than shallow understanding from people of good will does is not rooted as strongly as its converse.  In The Allegory of the Cave, Plato illustrates a scene in which a person who lives only in the dark amongst shadows and echoes.  This person knows only shadows and echoes to be reality.  To him, the real images and initial sounds are mystery; or rather they do not exist. If this allegory can be paralleled to misunderstanding, then it can be asked how someone who misunderstands, who knows only the darkness to be real, can have an effect on anything in the light of the real world.  Someone who comes from darkness cannot see in the light.  Someone who misunderstands can therefore not counteract good intentions as he does not comprehend the problem’s roots.  Thus, it can be said that misunderstanding from people of ill will does can do little counteracting of good intentions.Shallow understanding from people of good will counteracts good intentions more than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will does.  Shallow understanding has the ability to confuse the intention; to allow a misunderstanding to separate a group and leave each part with less strength, to allow a misunderstanding that “noise” should guide actions over the favored “sense”, and to allow a misunderstanding in conjunction with false information to keep one from acting upon his good will.  	Day jobs.  Cups and signs.  Outstretched hands of raggedly clothed baby props.  The signs remain unseen and the cups remain empty.  The cups remain empty due to dislike and an ignorance of a baby’s need.  The eyes that purposefully do not see the sign have no intention to help—yet they do.  They help because they do not feed a mother’s addiction.  The baby remains naked, but the mother remains sober.I.I blame the flowers for the failed dance.  	My teenage impulses forced me to stop and admire him.  Flowers in hand, Jake looked like any girl’s dream date.  My heart melted and my fingers tingled remembering how it felt to scrawl his name into my diary… imagining what it feels like to hold his hand.  	With a whisper that cut through my melted heart like a tidal wave, a faceless kid said, “You know those are yours right?”	Jake turned and looked at me with the cutest awkwardness a teenage girl could imagine.  He waved at me with the same hand in which he held the flowers.  He looked at the flowers, then back at me.  At the flowers, then back at me.  He took a step towards me, then away.  Towards me… but the bell rang and away he went.	I’m surprised I didn’t drown in my hormones during first hour.  But the frenzy didn’t last.  My beautiful flowers, the first flowers a boy ever wanted to give to me, alongside a sign questioning “Homecoming?” situated themselves on my friend’s locker, as I saw the second the bell rang.  Her excitement splashed down the hall spraying me in the face as it passed.	Jake rounded the corner and looked at me with a puzzled edge to that same awkward cuteness.  He looked at the flowers, then back at me.  At the flowers, then back at me.  He took a step towards me, then away. Towards me… but he was too embarrassed by his mistake and away he went.  	I saw him at the dance.  He waved at me with the same hand in which he held his ticket.  He took a step towards me, then away. Towards me… 	I blame the flowers.II.Though other methods of pollination exist, flowers depend upon bees most to accomplish the task.  The process begins when the bee leaves its hive to collect its food, its nectar.  The bee visits its first flower of the day; thus the first step of pollination begins.  The bee inserts its proboscis or long tube into the nectar tube of the flower and drinks.  As it drinks, male pollen from the flower floats into and attaches to the fur on the bee’s body.  Next, the bee visits a second flower.  While the bee again inserts its proboscis and drinks, the male pollen detaches itself from the bee’s body and floats into the female stigma of the flower.  The first flower is pollinated:  the process of creating a seed begins.  While the bee pollinates the second flower, it simultaneously picks up pollen from that flower to carry to the third flower it will visit.  The cycle continues.  III. 	To send flowers is to empathize. To send flowers is to care.   Without flowers, the funeral of a loved one descends as the darkest place in the world.  Flowers distract.  Their colors tear the mind away from the pain for a moment.  Their smell interrupts the sobs and reminds one how to breathe... reminds one that a simple breath did not always hurt.  Their variety points out that life too holds a variety of good and bad and that with each storm comes a rainbow.   The flowers, as a result of the overwhelming smells, colors, shapes, and sizes, dilute the pain.  Consequently, flowers make it possible for celebrating and mourning to coexist.  To send flowers is to point out the beauty of the circle of life.IV. A woman loves receiving any type of flowers, it is true. But men, be forewarned that different types of flowers say different things.  Different types of flowers say different things about you.  First you have the bouquet of red roses.  The connotation linked with red roses, thanks only to what the media plants in a woman’s mind, will drive her to jump into your arms.   Later on, however, she will most likely conclude that you performed such a dramatic scene with the roses in order to fill an expectation, or worse, to mark your territory.  She will see the roses as formal and impersonal.   Moving along, you have the Kroger-brand bouquet of genetically enhanced flowers.  Upon receiving these, a woman will flash you that well-aren’t-you-cute smile in an attempt to hide the well-it’s-the-thought-that-counts reaction her mind struggles to contain.  She will shake her head and smile every time the bubblegum pink, highlighter yellow, and Elmo blue flowers snatch her gaze.  However, if you failed to feature your oblivious y-chromosome on a prior occasion, she may link these fake flowers to a fake romance.  If this poor fortune targets you, she will not smile every time the bubble gum pink flowers abduct her eyes.  Rather, she will shed a quick tear and recall her ex-boyfriend.  And finally, you have the wild flowers.  With a gentle kiss, she will put the flowers in her hair to show you that your melody and hers harmonize together.  She might playfully pluck the petals with a, “he loves me, he loves me not, he loves me…”  You will laugh, get married, and spend the rest of your lives together– at least in her mind.Pain.  The kind one wants to feel—rest. Laughter.  The kind one needs to hear—rest.  A story.  One that’s meant to tell—rest.  A dancer.  One that lives to dance—rest.She walks into the room like a girl lost in herself.  Slowly.  Her head turns and eyes lock with the audience.  And now they’re lost too. Quickly.  Quickly she moves slowly.  Gracefully she bends frantically.  Lost she is focused.  Stopped she is moving.  Enraged she is calm.  Adrift she is resolved.  Resolved in her dance.  Relieved of her emotion.Michelle Snyder danced her “Relief” dance at the Hall of Fame Dance Challenge in Orlando, Florida, on Aug. 26, 2010.  “There were so many thoughts going through my mind when I finished learning that solo,” Snyder said.  “I came up with this twisted idea… it’s pain.”Oct. 23 marks the day that Snyder participated in a nation-wide MTV dance competition designed to promote the movie Burlesque.  She auditioned at Westland Mall, and became the top dancer across the state of Michigan.  “I didn’t think it was a big deal,” Snyder said, “but when I got there, there were all of these big names in the dance world.  It was really scary.”Snyder did not choreograph her audition dance.  She just showed up at the competition, felt the music, and won.  Because she won for the state of Michigan, the video of her audition was broadcasted nationally on television and on the internet and people were asked to vote for their favorite dancer.Snyder, even though she was the youngest competitor, came in third place nationally racking up votes from all across the United States.  She won $300 and won tickets to the premiere of the movie Burlesque which debuted at the Palladium Theatre.  Seats were reserved in her name.The competition was not without its controversies as well.  Snyder revealed that the two people ahead of her in the final results are rumored to belong to a dance company, which was against contest rules, and to have cheated in the voting process.  Still, Snyder is “so happy” with her standing at third place in the nation.This burlesque dance-off was far from the only time Snyder’s feet have hit a big stage.  She is a Pulse Protégé Dancer which means that she has been noticed at multiple national dance showcases.  She is allowed to work with Pulse, a national dance company, dancers at any of their national conventions.  Whenever she wants.Snyder has been to Las Vegas, Orlando, Chicago, Dallas, and Toronto, among other places, as a professional dancer.The more she dances at national conventions, the more people she meets, and the more her name gets out into the dance world.  So far, she has met people like good friend Matt Dorame from So You Think You Can Dance, the judges from So You Think You Can Dance, Broadway dancers and choreographers like Tyce Diorio and Joey Dowling, and many of the choreographers from the Step Up movies.Dorame visited Michigan on Monday, Jan. 3, to help Snyder choreograph a solo.  Snyder spent the entire day at the studio with him.Her name is not the only evidence of her talent that travels out into the dance world at conventions.  Her choreography is noticed  and shared with not only her friends at her studio but also by the professionals at the conventions.“People notice my choreography and they like it,” Snyder said.  “I don’t think it’s that good, but maybe it is to someone else.”Snyder records her choreography and then posts it to YouTube her customers can access it.  So, as a student by day, time seems to be the problem for this professional dancer.  Snyder says that she spends at least five hours at Suzette’s, her studio, on weekdays, and 10-15 hours on weekend days, if she’s not travelling that is. She is also the lead in Stoney’s winter play…Juggling school, play rehearsals, and dance proves to be a struggle.  “I don’t have time to eat and I don’t have time to sleep,” Snyder said laughing at herself.  But it’s worth it to this dancer.  It’s all worth it.“I don’t dance because I love it or because it’s a passion,” Snyder said with confidence, “It is my life.”  She feels incredibly lucky to have found what she is supposed to be doing, and to be given the chance to do it.  After high school, she plans to go to college online, because “dance has a short life and I’m not willing to stop my life for college.”“You don’t eat no meat?  You don’t eat no meat? That’s okay, I make lamb.”	Sugar cube in mouth, tea in hand, laughter in ears, you’re sitting around a long table.  You haven’t lifted a finger.  You’re the guest.  	“Will you stay for dinner? You have to stay. Have you eaten?”	“Oh no, I don’t want to impo--” 		But the conversation and laughter is contagious and smiling you know you have to stay, you want to stay.	“Our family is exactly like the one in My Big Fat Greek Wedding,” senior Kayvon Kashani-Gharavi said laughing. “My dad thinks that everything originates in Iran.”	While it may be hard to prove that everything originates in Iran, the Iranian passports and old exit permits leaves no doubt that this family did.	Kayvon’s father Saudegh Kashani-Gharavi grew up in Iran and came to the United States to earn an education in 1978. But putting a snag in his plan, an Iranian revolution broke out in 1979 making it too dangerous for him to return.  To make matters worse, the United States broke ties with Iran in 1980.	However, it was not all bad news for Mr. Kashani-Gharavi. In fact, by the genuine happiness that exudes from his kitchen table, it’s hard to know that such hard events make up his history at all. 	According to Kayvon’s uncle Sina Kashani-Gharavi, Mr. Kashani-Gharavi came to the United States “desperately seeking Linda [Kayvon’s mom,]” whom he married and started his half-Iranian, half-American family with.	But according to Kayvon and family, being half-Iranian and half-American is complicated at times for a few different reasons.  	The first is the difficulty of travel, the second is the mandatory draft in Iran, and the third is the U.S. - Iranian political relations.	“Iran is one of those countries where it’s hard for us to protect you,” is Mr. Kashani-Gharavi’s interpretation of the United State’s stance on travel to Iran. 	Because of the countries’ poor relationship, travel from the United States to Iran is fairly unpredictable and keeps many families from returning.	However, the Kashani-Gharavis’ travel history have no bumps in the road thanks to their careful planning and executing.	Last year, however, Kayvon could not return to Iran. 	True as it is that Kayvon and his three older siblings are dual-citizens of the United States and Iran, according to the Bureau of Consular Affairs in the U.S. Department of State, the Iranian government does not recognize dual citizenship and approaches dual citizens “solely as Iranian citizens subject to Iranian laws.”	One such Iranian law is the mandatory draft of boys over 16 years of age who have not enrolled in a university.  But as an Americanized Iranian, the draft presents perplexing possibilities, ones that mother Linda Kashani-Gharavi is not comfortable with.	“He doesn’t even speak farsi... we don’t know what would happen in a situation like that,” Mrs. Kashani-Gharavi said of the mandatory draft applying to Kayvon. “It would be awful for any of my boys.  It’s not going to be beneficial for the government and it would be very difficult for them.”	According to Mr. Kashani-Gharavi, it would have been safe for Kayvon to return to Iran for up to three months had the trip not been scheduled over the Iranian New Year which falls on March 21.  	But because Kayvon has plans of attending Oakland University in the fall, he, like his brothers, will soon be exempted from the mandatory draft and will again be able to return to Iran.	And yet the complications of being half-Iranian and half-American continue from day to day just living in the United States, according to Kayvon.	With the United State’s sanctions against Iran come mixed feelings and even terror from Iranian citizens in the United States.	“We heard Mitt Romney say that his first day in office he is gong to bomb Iran,” Kayvon said. “Having to hear that is really scary... to think about my family there...”  	While the Iranian and American governments have their differences, the Iranian people’s opinion of America generally does no align with those of their government making the tension between countries that much more frustrating for Kayvon and his family.	“Whenever people understand that I’m from the U.S., they say ‘Are you from America?’ They say it in farsi and it’s always quiet. And I say yes. ‘I have a brother and he lives in New York...’” Mrs. Kashani-Gharavi said smiling, remembering a past trip to Iran.	But right then Mr. Kashani-Gharavi’s voice draws the attention to the other side of the table.	“Give me a word, any word and I show you that the root of that word is from Iran.”	Everyone is laughing and Kayvon is saying that instead of windex like in My Big Fat Greek Wedding, it’s garlic that heals everything.	“You know, I was watching My Big Fat Greek Wedding, and at the end of the movie, at the end of the credits, I saw a name and he was from Iran... so there you go.” What happened to simple?  Everything is now so big, so dramatic, so elaborate. Especially when it comes to our love lives.	See, there are no more simple love stories.  No more boy sees girl, girl sees boy, boy and girl fall in love.  Nope.  Not here anyway.  But in this perfect scenario, how would said boy ask said girl to prom?  Well, his cheeks would probably flush, his dimples would surface, and he would say, “Will you go to prom with me?”  In return, her cheeks would probably flush, her voice would quiver, and she would say, “Yes.”	So maybe our big, dramatic, elaborate prom proposals come from a need to compensate for this lack of perfection, but the most important thing to remember is that “asking someone to prom” is just a question.  That is it.  Prom proposals, like any kind of proposal, are best if kept simple, kept genuine.	We do everything on a larger, more public scale now-a-days, what with Facebook and Twitter being our centers of gravity, so it makes sense that prom proposals have become a public event.  And sometimes that works.  Sometimes.	Oftentimes, however, putting on a fancy show questions the integrity of the question being asked.	“Sometimes people are just trying to do it for attention,” junior Michelle LoPicolo said of flamboyant prom proposals.  	And frankly, that is the exact reaction a flamboyant proposal generates.  Let us think back to that boy sees girl, girl sees boy, boy asks girl to prom scenario.  The situation’s undisguised integrity is arguably the cutest part, is it not?  And that aspect to a proposal goes undiscovered when a proposal is made just as much for the audience as for the person being asked.	“If the person doesn’t like to be the center of attention, don’t make it a big deal,” junior Tricia Goble said of asking someone to prom.	Unless the person being asked craves the public eye, a private proposal is probably preferable.	Not only does such a proposal question the asker’s motive, but a fancy, public proposal oftentimes leads to further, and generally negative, public response and repercussion.	“It’s good if they’re sure the person being asked is going to say yes,” junior Angela Kim said of public prom proposals.	“Otherwise it’s super awkward,” junior Nicollette Disantis said countering her friend’s statement with a nod and a smile.	For example, throughout Stoney’s chronicle of prom proposals, several make their way down the generations, stained in the school’s memory forever.  A guess to which leave the stains?  Yep, the rejections!  	One year, a boy asked a girl over the loud speaker.  Everyone awed and awed some more... until the poor boy got rejected.  	Now, the courage of such a prom proposal does not go unnoticed.  Still, such a heartache could have been made easier if echoes of its occurrence were not as loud through the hallways as the very PA announcement that began them.	In addition, those echoes of rejection take their toll on more than just the voice that began them.  Frankly, others wanting to pop the question would have to summon courage louder than the resonating rejection.  And how hard is that?  	The result just ends up being fewer people with a date to prom.	In the public eye, the act of asking someone to prom becomes a big social game in which every senior and underclassman asked is a player.  	But where did the purity of a simple question go in this game?  What is wrong with just asking?  Well, nothing. 	According to famous poet Walt Whitman, “Simplicity is the glory of expression.”	Complications disappear when that is remembered.  If you found someone you want to ask to prom, go make her want you by putting yourself out there and asking without hiding behind the big prom proposals society seems to call for.  Because it is not society that will be waiting for you to ask.  It is the girls.  Simplicity wins in the end.  Always.	Saturday morning, November 3rd:  Tantré Farm.  I now understand why the Tantré trip is such a staple of the Environmental Action Club (EnAct.)  Older members of EnAct had been talking up the trip, well, since the very first meeting--since right after the first round of introductions.  I now understand why our club continues its relationship with Tantré farm. I understand why it goes back year after year.  	To me Tantré seems like both a work of the past and a work of the future.  Its structure is simple, really.  It relies on the hands of multiple live-in workers who come from all different stages of life including college graduates, young married couples, divorced people, people looking for something new in life, and of course Deb Lentz, one of the owners of the farm, her husband, and little girl.  They all live and work together growing local food which they themselves eat in addition to sell to the local community.  Thinking back,  Tantré’s community reminds me of The Economics of Happiness and the idea that local-growing food improves community relationships.  The community was one of the most friendly, most self-sustaining communities I’ve ever encountered.  Deb Lentz talked a little bit about what it was like to raise her daughter in this community.  She sounded so happy.	Tantré’s goal “is to produce and distribute fresh, organic produce, while serving as an educational, sustainable, and social network for our surrounding community.”  During our morning visit to Tantré, Deb Lentz carried out this goal by incorporating us into the farm’s Saturday morning.  She first talked to us about the farm, educating us about the way the farm works and on the importance of eating locally--she acknowledged that local food is the way of the future, that this is the path we must take.  	Then the real fun began.  We walked to a little field, eating the final berries off the bushes along the way.  This field was where the last crops of the season were being planted.  We helped the little family of farmers drop the last garlic pits into the little holes poked at careful distances away from each other.  It was freezing, but I loved it.  After that, we went and pet the cows and the chickens.  One of the chickens jumped out of its fencing, clucking toward Libby and one of the cows kissed Hayley.  There was a sort of unity between food and animals and plants and planters.  So strange and so refreshing.	Everything about the day felt pure to me.  It felt like what I’ve always pictured and envied in old books, books that describe the way a farming family of the past used to live and eat simply.  It was the beginning of November and the berries that still clung to the bushes were the best berries I’ve ever tasted.  The same goes for the carrots that we ate straight out of the ground (no pesticides to worry about here.)  So in this way, this farm seemed to capture the past.  But I’m willing to bet that if the rest of the world had the opportunity to taste those berries and to really feel this community, it would understand that this is a very viable way of the future.  Local isn’t only better for the environment and sustainability, it’s just better.	Frank McCourt lived a childhood instilled with fear of the Catholic Church, a childhood whittled by the teachings of the Catholic Church…the teachings of the Catholic Church as interpreted by a child, that is.  Children are honest.  Retaining his childhood honesty, McCourt writes his memoir as if he somehow preserved his younger mind, voice, and spirit.  McCourt writes his memoir as if his youthful and ingenious honesty never dwindled, as exemplified in the quote above.  That honesty never dwindled as it fought its withstanding battle against the radical religious surroundings.  It continued to fight its battle, because it longed for the truth the church never gave him.In a video taken of Frank McCourt giving what resembled a homily at the Hudson Union Society in New York City, McCourt said this of the Catholic Church: “They get you practically before you leave the womb” (hudsonunionsociety).  To say the least, the Catholic Church immersed him in its teachings as a child.  It immersed him just as the Lough Neagh, the largest lake in Ireland, immerses a person drowning, gasping water where there should be air.  Truth is the air that the Catholic Church of his childhood stole from the young Frank McCourt.  Upon his disinterment from the Church as an adult, free to think on his own, McCourt was able to breathe, to gain new perspective as reflected by the passage in chapter VII pages 171-173 of Angela’s Ashes, a memoir of his childhood. This passage begins with the young Frank McCourt and a few of his Catholic classmates, including Mickey Spellacy, praying for a timely death for Mickey’s sister Brenda.  The Catholic classmates prayed for her timely death so that Mickey would miss school, and if Brenda died and Mickey missed school, he would allow the boys to live it up at the wake.  The passage then transitions to a lighter focus on Protestant girls and the way they appeared to the young, Catholic Frank McCourt.  By focusing on his suffering childhood thought process in juxtaposed circumstances relating to religion within these scenes, McCourt defines the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church on which he rested his faith as a child.	The most prominent insufficiency of the Catholic Church is defined by McCourt’s supply of ambiguous connotations and lack of definite denotations of words relating to the religion that guided his thought process and his faith.  This insufficiency is the Catholic Church’s plethora of un-answered questions.  How many times throughout the book does McCourt describe a scene in which a child’s question about religion remains unanswered?  Many.  For example, there’s the time when Frank’s father addressed a priest passing by as “father.” Frank inquired as to why, to which his mother responded with “Don’t ask him any questions” (48). This principle is represented in the chapter VII passage by the words McCourt uses.  The most direct example exists in the following sentences:  “Protestant girl, come with me to the True Church.  You’ll be saved and you won’t have the doom” (172).  This sentence exudes vague diction.  What is the definition of “True,” the capitalized adjective modifying “Church?”  What does it mean to be “saved” or to “have the doom?”  In the paragraph containing this sentence, the word “doom” is repeated five times.  The subsequent paragraph adds yet another.  It is seen written as “the doom,” “doom,” and “doomed.” The problem arises in the fact that throughout the book a clear definition of the word “doom” as related to the Church is never supplied while the word is used almost as often is the word “the” or “is.” The book lacks a clear description of how one becomes “doomed,” or what religious repercussions are associated with “the doom.”  The only obvious aspect of the word is its negative connotation.  Frankly, even a young Catholic child can associate “doom” with ruin and hell, but that leaves him with only a feeling, a connotation.  Hell.  That’s all that’s left to a child’s mind to mull over.  McCourt’s pairing of a child and seemingly undefined, negative words deciphers the insufficiency of the Church.  McCourt’s word choice asks its audience what a child can do with a word, a feeling, and an unanswered question, but remain with a mind lacking a state of grace. If diction does not exemplify the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church that tainted McCourt’s childhood thought process enough, then syntax by means of punctuation should finish the job by pointing out the young Frank’s misguided faith.  Building upon the concept of unanswered questions, the way McCourt scribes his dialogue continues his emphasis on vagueness. Dialogue in McCourt’s memoir does not involve quotation marks and therefore has no definite beginning or ending.  Uncertainty is the theme thus far.  To exemplify this idea, McCourt writes, “…they’re doomed.  That’s what the priests tell us.  Outside the Catholic Church there is no salvation.  Outside the Catholic Church there is nothing but doom” (172).  It can be interpreted that “what the priests tell us” is that “they’re doomed” and that the last two sentences are the young Frank’s thoughts.  However, it can also be interpreted that the last two sentences are the priests’ words inflicted upon the young Frank’s memory.  The lack of quotation marks makes it impossible to know which version is true. This parallels a concept commonly touched upon in the Catholic Church.  When taken out of the purely religious context, the Bible holds some of the same uncertainty.  Each book of the Bible was supposedly written by a different person, but time erased any proof of author long ago. Putting the analysis back into religious context, the ambiguity then focuses on the idea that some words may be God’s words and some may be the human author’s words.  Again, for a child with unanswered questions, these concepts would be hard to understand.  Another instance of syntax exemplifying the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church exists in the comparison of the beginning and end of this passage.  The excessive use of the conjunction “and” at the beginning of the passage contrasts with the simple sentence structure leaning toward asyndeton at the end of the passage.  To understand the relationship between the two different ends of the passage, context must be reinforced and understood.  The first part of the passage describes Catholic boys attempting to apply religion to their advantage by strategizing prayer into their selfish schemes revolving around the death of a dying girl… to no avail, for the young Frank at least.  Relatively, the second part of the passage describes the young and confused and anxious and Catholic Frank observing the young, blithe, Protestant girls.  The first part of the passage contains multiple sentences written in this way: “Well, if Brenda hangs on and I get me week off ye can come to the wake and have ham and cheese and cake and sherry and lemonade and everything and ye can listen to the songs and stories all night” (171). The unremitting use of the conjunction “and” in addition to the lack of commas speeds up the sentence to place emphasis on the cumulative content in the sentence to show how great a treat it would be to attend a wake. In contrast, the second part of the passage is considerably shorter and contains sentences written in this way: “I feel sorry for them, especially the girls, who are so lovely, they have such beautiful white teeth” (172). The biggest syntactical difference in this part of the passage as compared to the beginning part of the passage is the sudden use of commas and the disappearance of the conjunction “and” to speed the passage up. It can be interpreted that this more respectable, more graceful syntactical choice of McCourt’s was chosen to show that the Protestant girls live much more respectably and gracefully than do the Catholic boys.  To give this interpretation further merit, McCourt writes with this graceful syntax on many other occasions on which he writes longingly of Protestants and their lovely, lucid lifestyles.  For example, later on in the book, McCourt says, “If the weather is fine people are playing croquet, the Protestant game, or strolling around, talking and laughing, all decked out…” (315). This same graceful syntax, with legato ideas separated by commas, is used.  Thus, the syntactical differences at the beginning of the original passage on page 172 as compared with the syntax at the end of the passage reveal obvious differences between the groups of children.  This highlights another possible insufficiency of the Catholic Church.  The Catholic boys are described with syntax that shows them as excited at the possibility of a young girl’s death.  The Catholic boys are described with syntax that shows them as graceless, lacking propriety and respectability, while the Protestant girls are described with syntax that shows them as graceful, exuding propriety and elegance. It can be interpreted that McCourt wanted to exemplify, by the juxtaposition of drastically different syntax, that the Catholic Church raises less respectable children than does the Protestant Church.  By looking a bit deeper into McCourt’s sentences, it can be interpreted that McCourt’s syntax further implies “grace-full” and “grace-less.”  He could be depicting that the religious “state of grace” exists with the graceful Protestants while the Catholics strive for a poorly defined “state of grace” leaving them, again, questioning and graceless.  Here, again, an insufficiency of the Catholic Church is unveiled.Building upon this same idea of juxtaposing aspects of the Catholic and Protestant religions, as developed by his childhood thought process, McCourt uses emotional appeal to define further insufficiencies of the Catholic Church which took advantage of the faith he put in it.  The only place in this passage where emotional appeal is used is at the end of the passage—the Protestants’ part of the passage.  McCourt scratches onomatopoeia into his sentences when he says the following of the Protestant girls: “Croquet is a Protestant game.  They hit the ball with the mallet, pock and pock again, and laugh” (173).  The word “pock” is used figuratively to create the noise a croquet mallet makes when it hits the ball. Furthermore, McCourt also describes the Protestant girls as having “…beautiful white teeth” (172). White is the universal color of innocence (not to mention, to coat-tail on the previous argument, the universal-in-Limerick color of expensive dental care).  Thus, it can be interpreted that white modifies the Protestant girls to signify their innocence (and wealth).  Onomatopoeia and imagery, along with emotional appeal in general, are used to brighten up a scene, to fill it with fun, sensory details.  McCourt includes these details only when modifying Protestant games, because that type of fun is associated with “doom” in the Catholic Church.  Frank and the other children were taught that having fun, to a certain extent, was not allowed.  By his use of figurative language in secluded parts of the passage, McCourt shows his disapproval of this aspect of the Catholic Church as how is playing croquet logically related to sin?  What would Jesus do?  Well, in McCourt’s opinion, he would play croquet.  In this passage McCourt figuratively asks why children could possibly be deprived of innocent fun.Another emotional appeal used by McCourt to illustrate insufficiencies in the Catholic Church is his use of a poem, a cadence if you will.  The cadence reads: “Proddy Woddy ring the bell, / Not for heaven but for hell” (172). “Proddy Woddy” is most likely a sardonic nickname Catholics have been known to call Protestants.  Although the internet lacks an explicit definition of “Proddy Woddy,” as is the case for most nicknames, the context of the nickname’s use in multiple examples verifies it as a negative nickname for Protestants.  One example, a comment on the Irish Central publication’s article “Tony Blair reveals how British Catholic ambassadors to the Vatican were banned for centuries,” says, “Typical of proddy-woddy Britain to exclude Catholics for so long so as to deny its people of the Truth…” (jacersisityourself).  As England is a Protestant-heavy country, as defined profusely by McCourt’s memoir, the term can definitely be utilized as a nickname for Protestants.  As this is the case, the effect of this poem is immensely supportive of McCourt’s ideas of the Catholic Church’s insufficiencies.  Firstly, the Catholics are the ones in this poem ridiculing the Protestants by name-calling.  Name-calling is the universal sign of immaturity, most often seen on elementary school playgrounds… and McCourt associates the Catholics with name-calling.  What’s more, he juxtaposes the poem with the situation above—the one that describes the Catholic boys strategizing prayer into their selfish schemes dependent upon the death of a young girl.  To seal the deal, the poem is further juxtaposed to the description of the proddy-woddy girls as innocent, graceful, and respectable.  Therefore, the placement of this cadence is ironic on top of everything else.  It implies that the Protestants are not the people guilty of “ring[ing] the bell, / Not for heaven but for hell” but that the Catholics are the guilty ones.  McCourt slaps his reader in the face with this blatant announcement of an insufficiency in the Catholic Church.Through his True (meaning honest) writings, from his childhood perspective, about his religion within this passage, insufficiencies of the Catholic Church are captured and destroyed.  His diction, his syntax, his emotional appeal, his content, his every aspect of his memoir pairs the face-value, hesitant, childhood thought process with the deeper, grown-up certainty, his grown-up truth.  No longer would the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church damper his thought process.  No longer would the Church keep him trapped in Ireland or drown him in Lough Neagh.  Later in life, McCourt said that he realized that in his lifetime he wanted to and was meant to deal with ideas and with kids.  He wanted to deal with kids “because they, they will tell the truth…Eventually what they want is the truth…” (jfc999).  McCourt went on to say, “Maybe this is what I was searching for myself” (jfc999).  Throughout his childhood, the Catholic Church inflicted its uncertainty upon the young Frank McCourt.  But while he was drowning and his life was passing before his eyes, he learned how to swim and gasped for air, gasped for breath, gasped for truth… and found it. Buddhism is a single religion because each of its schools rely on the merit of generosity.  To be “generous” is to give liberally or to be free of meanness and smallness of mind and character.  Each school of Buddhism revolves around this idea of “being generous” and it is for this reason that Buddhism is a single entity, a single religion.  	To begin, the Hinayana school’s reliance on both the doctrine of karma and on the Buddha shows its ensuing reliance on generosity.  “Karma” refers to the law of cause and effect which states that virtuous actions cause happiness in the future while non-virtuous actions cause suffering.  By nature, virtuous actions lead to charitable actions.  The “Illumination of the Five Realms of Existence” text, a text that uses karma’s theory to show how certain actions lead to certain results, provides examples of actions that lead to rebirth within each of the different realms.  Within the “Human Being Section,” generosity is a common theme.  For example, the sections states:  “Whoever offers a garden, the refuge of all creatures, would be reborn worshipped with flowers, be always rich and glorious” (Lopez 14).  It further states:  “Whoever gives food here on earth is always reborn to comfort, given long life, beauty and strength, is wise and avoids disease” (Lopez 13-14).  To reap good karma, one must be generous.  Some may argue that these actions are not executed out of generosity seeing as members of the Hinayana give to others for the sake of a personal gain of good karma.  However, the “Human Being Section” further says that “Whoever gives something for the good of others, with heart full of sympathy, not heeding his own good, reaps unspoiled fruit” (Lopez 15).  Therefore, karma, as it is defined by the Hinayana, does take selfless compassion into account.  The law of karma relies on the concept of “intention”: if the intention of the generous person is faulty, good karma may not be gained.  If this rebuttal is unsatisfactory, “generosity” means to give freely.  The act of giving freely is not undermined by selfish incentive.	However, the Hinayana school undeniably regards the Buddha as the most generous of all beings.  After speaking with the Brahma Sahampati in the “Ariyapariyesana Sutra”, the sutra within which the Buddha describes the narrative surrounding his enlightenment, the Buddha said that he “saw beings with little dust in their eyes and with much dust in their eyes” (Lopez 113).  Thus, to teach this dharma that “is profound, hard to see and hard to understand...” (Lopez 111) was not to be an easy task, yet the charitable Buddha set out to teach.  He said the following later in that same sutra:  “I go now to the city of Kasi/To set in motion the wheel of the dhamma/In a world that has become blind/I go to beat the drum of the deathless” (Lopez 114).  His generosity, however, preceded his life as the Buddha.  Prior to becoming a Buddha, he sought the bodhisattva path and vowed to teach the dharma for the sake of all sentient beings.  As the bodhisattva Sumedha (the bodhisattva who would eventually become our Gautama Buddha), and during many bodhisattva lives following, he chose not to hear the teachings of the dharma so as not to become enlightened.  In this way, he postponed his own cessation of suffering to remain in the cycle of suffering that is samsara.  He charitably did this for the sake of sentient beings.  In fact, it was Sumedha’s generous act of lying down in the mud in order to create a path for the venerable one which caused the venerable Dipamkara Buddha to say, “This is one who will be a buddha” (Lopez 118).  This was the prophecy that made it possible for Sumedha to eventually become a Buddha.  It is in these many ways that the Hinayana school relies on generosity.	Within the Mahayana school of Buddhism, the Buddha is still revered as the most generous of all beings and the law of karma still stands.  By this reasoning alone, the merit of generosity is prevalent to the Mahayana school of Buddhism as well.  However, the Mahayana school is based on the concern that the Buddha is not perceived as ultimately generous within the Hinayana school of thought.  Within The Lotus Sutra, the sutra that gave rise to the Mahayana, Gautama Buddha says:  “I would be ungenerous/If I were to lead and inspire even a single person/Through an inferior vehicle [nirvana]” (The Lotus Sutra 35).  The Mahayana school believes that as the Buddha is the most generous of all beings, he would never lead sentient beings to nirvana, to an “enlightenment” less than his own.  Therefore, the Mahayana dispels the notion of the sravaka and pratyekabuddha vehicles in favor of the bodhisattva vehicle as the only path which our generous Buddha would ever teach sentient beings to follow.	Thus, the premise of the Mahayana is that the Buddha, and all buddhas before him, spun the wheel of the dharma two times.  The Buddha spun the first wheel of the dharma, however, as skillful means in order to charitably help beings understand the true dharma.  This is described within the parable of the Apparitional City found in The Lotus Sutra.  Within this parable, a group of people desires to travel to a place where they will find a wonderful treasure.  However, the people become exhausted and therefore desire to turn back and abandon their mission.  Thus, “the leader, through his skillful means, magically creates a city” (The Lotus Sutra 131) as a place for the people to rest.  He then says, “Once you are able to go on and reach the treasure site, then you can depart once more” (The Lotus Sutra 131).  In this parable, the apparitional city is nirvana and the treasure is true enlightenment, or buddhahood.  The Mahayana school believes that the Buddha generously used skillful means in order to help sentient beings understand the dharma, in order to charitably give them a rest along their journey to enlightenment.	Therefore, as the bodhisattva path remains the only vehicle to enlightenment, “eighty thousand bodhisattva[s]” (The Lotus Sutra 3) were on the mountain with the Buddha within The Lotus Sutra.  This detail is included in The Lotus Sutra in order to show that everyone has the ability to become a bodhisattva, to show that everyone has tathagatagarbha, or buddha nature.   Thus, as everyone has this “essence” (Lopez 555) of a generous buddha within them, the prevalence of generosity within the Mahayana school is heightened.  Each person desiring to become a bodhisattva, must then develop bodhicitta, “enlightenment mind” or the desire to achieve enlightenment for the sake of all beings (Lopez 550).  Each person desiring to become a bodhisattva must then “vow to achieve buddhahood in order to free all beings in the universe from suffering” (Lopez 388).  Within the Mahayana, in order to achieve the ultimate enlightenment, one must be ultimately generous in this way.  	To heighten the prevalence of generosity even further, the Mahayana reverses the Hinayana ideal which says that only one Buddha must exist in the world at a time.  Within The Lotus Sutra, the Buddha says that “Anyone who follows this expounder’s instructions,/Will be able to meet budhas/Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River” (The Lotus Sutra 3).  Therefore, within the Mahayana, the sheer number of generous beings is amplified.  Multiple buddhas may exist at a time, because each buddha has his own specified buddha field.  The Pure Land school within the Mahayana relies on what is known as the best buddha field in existence (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).  This pure land is known as Sukhavati, or the Land of Bliss and it came into existence thanks to the bodhisattva Dharmakara’s generosity.  Dharmakara once asked the Buddha that came before him to describe all of the buddha lands.  Upon hearing all of the descriptions, Dharmakara combined the best qualities of all of the different buddha lands into a series of vows saying, “May I not become a Buddha...” unless his buddha land includes all of these best characteristics (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).	Dharmakara became the buddha Amitabha and because of his generous vows, his pure land is now “adorned with arrays of such excellent qualities, qualities that are unique to buddha-fields,” (Lopez 62) as our Gautama Buddha describes it to Sariputra in “The Wonderful Panoply of the Land of Bliss” short sutra.  Because it has all of the best characteristics of all former pure lands, Amitabha’s pure land is the place where learning the dharma is easiest.  One of the qualities of this pure land, as Gautama Buddha says, is that “Three times a night, three times a day [the wild geese] gather together and form a chorus... proclaim[ing] the spiritual faculties, the spiritual powers and the elements of awakening” (Lopez 64).  Thus, practicing the dharma is made much easier in this pure land--so easy, in fact, that each person born in this pure land will become a Buddha in his next lifetime.  But perhaps the most generous characteristic of Amitabha  Buddha’s is that he allows anyone who says “Namu Amida Butsu” into his kingdom.  This is considered especially generous of Amitabha Buddha, because it allows people living during mappo, an age during which following the path is fairly impossible, a chance to achieve enlightenment (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).  It is for these reasons that Amitabha Buddha is viewed as exceptionally generous.  It is in this way that the Pure Land school of the Mahayana relies on generosity.	To continue, as the Pure Land school is part of the Mahayana, it still relies on the bodhisattva path and still revers the Buddha as the most generous of all beings and the law of karma still stands.  By this reasoning, the merit of generosity is further prevalent to the Pure Land school of Buddhism.  This same reasoning can be applied to the Zen and Tantra schools of Buddhism as they too are part of the Mahayana.  Still, the merit of generosity is more deeply embedded within these two schools as well.  To begin with Zen, it first must be said that some may argue that this school does not rely on generosity of others and that the “dharma-wheel... is not the preaching of someone else’s teaching nor does it rely on another’s power,” as the Japanese Zen master Bassui Tokusho said in a lecture (Lopez 533).  That is all very well and true in Zen Buddhism, but perhaps generosity exists in a different form within the Zen teachings (in addition to the formerly mentioned tenants that stand true to all forms of Mahayana Buddhism).  	To elaborate, generosity can be understood to exist in the very nature of the Mu Koan.  The Mu Koan asks the following:  “Does a dog have the buddha nature?” (Lopez lecture Nov. 27).  While koans are meant to make one think, meant to cause one doubt, meant to allow one to somehow recognize the nature of one’s own mind, the Mu Koan can be understood to explain that all beings, even the lowly dogs of the street, have the buddha nature (Lopez lecture, Nov. 27).  The answer to this koan is “Yes, a dog does have the buddha nature,” suggesting that it is important to be generous to all, even to a dog, the dirtiest animal on the streets of India, as all beings have the buddha nature.  It would be unsound to treat a being with the charitable buddha nature any way other than generously.  It is for this reason that one should be generous to all beings.	To continue with Tantra, it must first be said that some may argue that this school does not rely on generosity, but that it rather ignores it in the way it reverses social conventions and the conventions of “purity” and “pollution.”  This is understandable and Virupa, the “ugly monk” who saw past the conventions of his original monastery is an example.  Under the instruction of his bum teacher Tilopa, Virupa pulled a bridegroom off its chariot.  Virupa did this as a trial which was, supposedly, helping him along the path (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  	However, Tantra relies on the fact that there is a “hidden yet indestructible reality that is said to lie within each being in the universe, waiting to be uncovered,” as Lopez’s introduction to  “Hymn to the Dharmadhatu” says (Lopez 465).  This is to say that even the impurest beings of all contain a sort of “indestructible reality.” In fact, in Tantra’s version of “emptiness,” there are no valid distinctions between one being and another.  Thus social conventions, specifically the caste system, get turned upside down (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  	To build upon this, Tantra teaches radical statements such as the following statement found in “Hymn to the Dharmadhatu,” the figurative description of Tantra’s version of emptiness in conjunction with the indestructible yet hidden reality:  “Abandoning conceptions and designations about phenomena that commonly come to mind, meditate on the lack of intrinsic nature of phenomena as the dharmadhatu” (Lopez 470).  By this idea that is the dharmadhatu, Tilopa, the bum who instructed Viropa to pull down the bridegroom,  is considered a great teacher (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  Taking these characteristics of Tantra into consideration, it can be argued that that which is considered socially “virtuous” and what is considered socially “non-virtuous” may be flipped in the Tantra reality.  Or rather, distinctions such as “virtuous” and “non-virtuous” may not exist at all.  This allows for a reinterpretation of the law of karma.  As such, Tantra transcends all social constructs, all ideas about what can be considered “virtuous” in society.  This, thus, generously gives the lowest caste systems equal chance at achieving enlightenment.  Even those at the bottom of the caste system, those viewed as most “impure” or, perhaps, “non-virtuous” have the chance to achieve enlightenment just as anybody else.  It is in this way that Tantra actively promotes a more generous ethics.  	In these ways, each school of Buddhism relies on the merit of generosity.  Buddhism as a whole, as a single entity that encompasses all of these different schools can further be viewed as an intrinsically generous entity.  To illustrate this, Buddhism as a religion can be compared to the Buddha.  The Buddha has the ability to teach better than anybody else.  All he has to say is “A” in order to make each being in his audience understand.  Upon his utterance of “A,” each being will hear what he or she needs to hear in order to understand.  The Buddha accomplishes this, because he understands what is in everyone’s mind. He understands everyone’s background.  It is through this compassionate understanding of all beings that the Buddha is able to be the best teacher that there is (Lopez lecture, Oct 23).  Buddhism as a single entity, a single religion, is similar.  It offers many different schools of teaching so that any type of person can find a teaching that he or she relates to, that he or she understands.  Buddhism is like the Buddha, because though it is called by a single name, it encompasses many different ways by which people can reach enlightenment, depending on their belief system.  For example, a person who believes himself to be living in the degenerate age may understand the Pure Land school best.  A person of the lowest caste system may understand the Tantra school best.  A person who seeks only cessation from suffering may understand the Hinayana school best, and so on.  It can be interpreted that Buddhism as a religion generously makes itself understandable to all types of people.  It is for these reasons that Buddhism is a single entity, a single religion.  While the speaker in “The Chimney Sweeper” from Songs of Innocence is, I believe, the same as the speaker in “The Chimney Sweeper” from “Songs of Experience,” this grown adult looks back at his childhood from different perspectives in each poem.  In the first, he looks back remembering his childhood as he experienced it.  The first stanza includes the words “sweep,” “sleep,” and of course “weep!”  The onomatopoeia of “weep!” carries on to “sweep” and “sleep,” implying a soft, less explicit sort of crying. Perhaps this implies that the speaker remembers being sad as a child or having the feeling of weeping but hadn’t been given the chance to cry as he was made to harden and work right away. As the speaker describes his friend Tom as having grown “happy & warm” by learning that “if he’d be a good boy/He’d have God for his father & never want joy,” it can be inferred that the speaker, too, learned this lesson as a child. Perhaps it can be said that Tom taught the speaker this lesson, which he here recounts as an adult.  Alrighty!  With that understanding I can move on to “The Chimney Sweeper” from “Songs of Experience.”  In this poem, the adult speaker looks back at the experience he had as a child as he now understands it as an adult.  The rhyme scheme from the first poem carries through and is emphasized as he is now “crying ‘weep, weep’ in notes of woe!”  In a very Rousseauian manner, the speaker goes on to say that he “was happy upon the heath,” “heath” meaning land uncultivated, land not tampered with by man, and that he “smil’d among the winter snow.”  It is notabe that snow is white.  Whiteness seems to be a symbol that extends across nearly all of Blake’s poetry about childhood. I have gathered that this “white” symbolizes the innocence of a child, or rather the Godly nature of a natural child who has not been tampered with, or blackened, by society.  The speaker goes on to say that his parents “clothed [him] in the clothes of death,” a comment that can be directly compared to a passage in Rousseau’s Emile.  In Emile, Rousseau says that thanks to “civilization” or society, “All his life long man is imprisoned by our institutions” starting from the very beginning when “The infant is bound up in swaddling clothes.”  And so, as it can be interpreted that Blake, or Blake’s speaker, as he alludes to this passage from Rousseau, is blaming institution and his parents’ faith in it.  It is thanks to this that he became sooty or blackened so early in his childhood.  To continue with this idea, the speaker says that his parents are “gone to praise God & his Priest & King/ Who Make up a heaven of our misery.”  Based on these lines, it can be said that the speaker blames even the institution of religion.  Now, based on his other poems, I don’t think we can believe that Blake does not believe in God.  Rather, I think he is implying that God exists in the white of “winters snow,” in the innocence of an un-tampered-with child.  God exists in the dreams of children, like the speaker’s friend Tom from the first version of “The Chimney Sweeper.”  Perhaps the speaker, as an adult, is “happy & dance[s] and sing[s]” because he remembers that eventually he will “have God for his father and never want joy.”  God exists in the songs of the innocent.  He does not, Blake implies, exist in the experience of society.