Somehow, he claims her most.  What is he doing on the stained brick-yellow pillow below her shoe?  Will she step on him once her shoe buckles?  Will she pick him up or is he dropped for good?   I think his name was Ozzie, but it doesn’t matter much now.  Now that he got too small and his proportions are off.  Most teddy bears are large enough for a little one’s arms to go around only once... but maybe it was she who grew.  She grew and now her arms could spin round and round that bear like a twister.  But that isn’t feasible, so he stays laying there, on his back with his arms open wide.  His name was Ozzie and still he waits for a hug that is not coming.  I take that back, the sole of the dirty shoe might do. 	The sole of that shoe resting on that stained brick-yellow pillow was made for walking, made for exploring. When this girl traveled last, she traveled not by wand but by shoe--by plain, ordinary, black shoe.  She walked not along the paved, clean, possibly yellow bricked roads, but along reality’s dirty streets.  She walked to see what she could, to learn.  Those dirtied soles prove it.  	Two hands ready her feet to walk again.  One sock up and folded neatly.  One shoe buckled.  Strange that she wears that white shirt of hers as she readies, though.  The dust those walking soles will kick up could turn it dark and the rain could stain.  This could happen, or that... but maybe circumstance will leave it innocent.  Or maybe she could bleach it back.    	Two hands will soon ready her hair--will braid the final braid and tie the final ribbon.  But wait.  Maybe those two hands will instead unbraid the first braid and untie the first ribbon.  I guess I do not know...  I do not know this girl.  	What I do know is that this girl is at an “in-between.”  She is not yet complete.  One shoe unbuckled, one sock un-straightened.  How young she appears at first glance:  One braid still in.  One ribbon, one blue-checkered ribbon,  still bowed.  Maybe she plans to take out that braid and that blue-checkered ribbon.  I wonder how much older she would look then, how much wiser?  Regardless, she is a Dorothy in transition.	A Dorothy in transition...so who is the Dorothy, the one seeking the green magician?  Who is the girl with that blue checkered dress, those ruby slippers, and that little dog too?  I do not know... I do not know that girl either.  What I do know is that at one time she was in Oz and that at one time she learned that a brain, a heart, and courage were all to be found within herself and her idea of “home.”  What I do know is that she journeyed to Oz for self discovery.  While I do not know that girl, she sings that I can find her “where troubles melt like lemon drops a way above the chimney tops” (Arlen).  	Melting troubles.  Lemon drops.  Innocence.  Dorothy projects innocence.  Can’t you just hear it in her “Oh no!”?  Can’t you just see it in her wide eyes and those little shakes of her head?  But why does she project this innocence? 	Randall Auxier and Phil Seng, authors of Popular Culture and Philosophy:  Wizard of Oz and Philosophy say that Dorothy lives in “...blissful ignorance of the deeper evils of the world” (Auxier 227).  They say that Dorothy is not a “worldly” person (227).  She is not “cultured or well-travelled” (227).  They say that there is another “worldliness eluding Dorothy... the same [worldliness] eluding all young persons before they’ve encountered larger realities, experiences occasioning deep loss, such as death and sudden displacement” (227).  	Huh.  This is the perception.  This is, arguably, how the larger world sees Dorothy:  She is innocent.  She is not worldly.  To her, Kansas is the world.  That is it.  Auxier and Seng disqualify her as a “worldly” person, as a knowledgeable person, as a cultivated person, because she supposedly lacks the experience of “deep loss.”  In their eyes, she knows happiness and stability under the love of her aunt and uncle, but she does not know the other side of the spectrum.  Auxier and Seng’s seem to believe that just as she knows only Kansas, she knows only happiness as well.  Thus, they pair her lack of experience with a lack of understanding.  I worry that other readers of her book or viewers of her movie have done the same thing as Auxier and Seng.  I worry that others call her lucky, say “ignorance is bliss,” and then brand her as “ignorant.”	Do “ignorant” and “innocent” go together?  Sometimes I wonder if “innocent” is the friendly-people way of meaning “ignorant.”  I wonder.  I wonder if her “innocent” demeanor, her goodly voice and its drawn out “Oh no!” help lead people to their categorization of Dorothy as “ignorant.”	Because she is not.  In fact, “the deeper evils of the world” nurtured Dorothy into becoming who she is, just as parents do... Where are her parents?  They either died or left.  Probably died.  How in the world Kansas is the death of both parents not considered one of “the deeper evils of the world”?  Irrefutably by moral standards, to grow up knowing one’s parents have died is to grow up knowing a great evil.  Ask any child in this situation.  Or don’t ask--see it in their eyes.	I want to be clear and acknowledge that I make this argument not to agree that one must know the deeper evils of the world in this way in order to be worldly qualified.  No, I say this to wonder whether Dorothy’s innocent demeanor led to these somewhat false accusations, these somewhat false perceptions, this branding of what exists within her as “ignorant.”  Perhaps she is not ignorant.  Regardless, somehow the terms are related.  	By dictionary.com, “ignorant” is defined as “uninformed; unaware” (Dictionary.com).  Conversely, and I mean conversely,  “innocent” is defined as “free from moral wrong...pure” (Dictionary.com).  Does purity only stem from being unaware?  No, I do not think so.  I think the terms are mutually exclusive.  At least, I really hope they are.	Photographer Cindy Sherman inspired this self-portrait.  Yes, this is me.  And still I maintain that I do not know this girl.  See, I took this photo for you.  I took this photo to try and alter the way you see me.  Because sometimes you don’t see past my white shirt.  Again, I took this photo to try and alter the way you see me.  But this is not how I see myself.  I will never be able to define how I see myself.  I will not.  Because I would be deceitful if I tried.  I am the only person who really knows what I am, who I am.  And I refuse to define that what and who.  Because I cannot.  Because I am dynamic.  Because I change--every second it seems.  Because if I gave you a definition now, it would be different in five minutes.  This inability to define is frustrating for me, too.  To people who try to define me, I nod and understand.  But I never believe.	Again, photographer Cindy Sherman inspired my self-portrait.  Simon Hattenstone, author of the article “Cindy Sherman:  Me, myself and I,” said that Sherman “took photos of herself that were anything but self-portraits... her camera always lied” (Hattenstone).  This seems to be the common perception.  Cindy Sherman’s self, her essence is not in her photographs.  She is an actor embodying somebody else, somebody other than her.  I disagree.	To define what she is not, in a way, defines what she is.  Do we have the authority to do that?  Do we have the authority to define Cindy Sherman?  The “Cindy Sherman” chapter in the book Lives of The Artists by Calvin Tomkins says that Sherman used to dress up to go to work, but that “she stopped doing it because, she said, she was afraid of losing her street identity...” (Tomkins 30).  That raises the question of how she defines her own “self.”  Her “street identity” is probably not how she sees her own self.  The article also says that she is shy, that she is very nice, and that, according to Janelle Reiring, “it’s very hard to get her to say what she wants” (Tomkins 37).  Maybe she does not know what she wants.  Maybe she is playing with her identity in the sense that she does not really define her own self.  Maybe she acknowledges change and the influence of the rest of the world.  Maybe her self is not actually “present” in any of her photos because she, too, refuses to define herself.  Maybe we are similar.  But if she does not define herself, how can others claim the ability to do so?  Others do not have that authority.  Maybe shards of who she is, what she associates with, what she believes exist in some of her photos.  Maybe shards of her self exist in her images.  Maybe not.	But pieces of my self do exist in this image.  Pieces of my “street identity” exist.  Pieces of my “street identity” exist as they lead to how you sometimes see me:  the white, innocent shirt, the girlish braid and bow, the teddy bear.  Sometimes the first word you use to define me is “innocent.”  From babyhood to childhood to teenage-hood to adulthood, you have always termed me “innocent.”  According to you, I, like Dorothy, project innocence.  You say:  “Can’t you just hear it in your high voice?  Can’t you just see it in the way your eyes get wide when someone swears?”  Disclaimer:  I say swear words when necessary, thank you very much.  And when you tell me that I’m “innocent” it becomes just about necessary.  Because you see only my “street identity.”  You see only the me I don’t know how not to project to the world.  You don’t see me how I see myself.  But instead of the “How the hell do you know?” that I’m sometimes thinking, I usually just nod and understand.  Because that’s what I do.  And somehow you’re right.  But I wonder what you mean.  And again, I never believe.		Dorothy projects innocence and I wonder if that led to people’s perception of her as “ignorant.”  I wonder that about myself, too.  The boy who lives down the hall from me said this to me the other day:  “You’re almost self-sheltering, in a way.  You choose not to see the bad things in the world.”  I do not think he meant this as an insult.  Still, I defended what’s mine.  Somehow the conversation hovered around the facts that my mom’s my best friend and that I recycle a lot.  But I think I surprised him when we agreed that you can’t know real love without real pain and that “the bad things in the world” are important.  As I do not define myself explicitly, I do not dismiss what he said.  Still, I do not believe it either.	Auxier and Seng, I think, were wrong when they termed Dorothy as “blissfully ignora[nt] of the deeper evils...”  She projected innocence, but she was not ignorant.  “Street identities” do not correlate to selves.  Again, I took this picture for you.  I worked as an actor, embodying the me I need you to acknowledge.  I wore my walking shoes.  I wore the walking shoes that dispel ignorance, the walking shoes that have seen some and desire to see more.  I wore the walking shoes equipped for travel, for learning about “the deeper evils of the world” and “the bad things in the world.”  I wore my walking shoes because in my life I walk to learn.	And I took out a braid and may soon take out the next one.  I may soon cast the blue checkers aside entirely.  Because the black checkers deserve prominence.  I see the rising tides around the world--a loss of the shore and homes.  I see the men on the street--a loss of jobs and homes.  I see the eyes of the friend whose mother has died--the loss of not a house but a home.  I mourn for the loss of those homes.  Dorothy journeyed to rediscover the home she too had lost.  But while she journeyed for self-discovery, I journey for world-discovery.  I journey to learn and I took this picture for you.  I want you to acknowledge it.  I want you to acknowledge that I walk in the world, that I walk to see and that while maybe I am innocent in your eyes, I am not ignorant.  	Dorothy found her home.  She just had to click her heals three times and believe.  I think I found mine too.  You can say I’m lucky, but don’t say it’s because “ignorance is bliss.”  I’m lucky because while learning is not always bliss it makes me thankful for that home, that home that somehow defines me.  While I may not ever believe a specific definition of myself to be true, I do believe that the way he claims me most says something about me.  Maybe it’s that I’m innocent.  Maybe it’s something else.  His name is Teddy and I would never step on him once my walking shoe buckles.  I did not grow to a different proportion.  My arms still wrap around my teddy bear once.  	