While the speaker in “The Chimney Sweeper” from Songs of Innocence is, I believe, the same as the speaker in “The Chimney Sweeper” from “Songs of Experience,” this grown adult looks back at his childhood from different perspectives in each poem.  In the first, he looks back remembering his childhood as he experienced it.  The first stanza includes the words “sweep,” “sleep,” and of course “weep!”  The onomatopoeia of “weep!” carries on to “sweep” and “sleep,” implying a soft, less explicit sort of crying. Perhaps this implies that the speaker remembers being sad as a child or having the feeling of weeping but hadn’t been given the chance to cry as he was made to harden and work right away. As the speaker describes his friend Tom as having grown “happy & warm” by learning that “if he’d be a good boy/He’d have God for his father & never want joy,” it can be inferred that the speaker, too, learned this lesson as a child. Perhaps it can be said that Tom taught the speaker this lesson, which he here recounts as an adult.  Alrighty!  With that understanding I can move on to “The Chimney Sweeper” from “Songs of Experience.”  In this poem, the adult speaker looks back at the experience he had as a child as he now understands it as an adult.  The rhyme scheme from the first poem carries through and is emphasized as he is now “crying ‘weep, weep’ in notes of woe!”  In a very Rousseauian manner, the speaker goes on to say that he “was happy upon the heath,” “heath” meaning land uncultivated, land not tampered with by man, and that he “smil’d among the winter snow.”  It is notabe that snow is white.  Whiteness seems to be a symbol that extends across nearly all of Blake’s poetry about childhood. I have gathered that this “white” symbolizes the innocence of a child, or rather the Godly nature of a natural child who has not been tampered with, or blackened, by society.  The speaker goes on to say that his parents “clothed [him] in the clothes of death,” a comment that can be directly compared to a passage in Rousseau’s Emile.  In Emile, Rousseau says that thanks to “civilization” or society, “All his life long man is imprisoned by our institutions” starting from the very beginning when “The infant is bound up in swaddling clothes.”  And so, as it can be interpreted that Blake, or Blake’s speaker, as he alludes to this passage from Rousseau, is blaming institution and his parents’ faith in it.  It is thanks to this that he became sooty or blackened so early in his childhood.  To continue with this idea, the speaker says that his parents are “gone to praise God & his Priest & King/ Who Make up a heaven of our misery.”  Based on these lines, it can be said that the speaker blames even the institution of religion.  Now, based on his other poems, I don’t think we can believe that Blake does not believe in God.  Rather, I think he is implying that God exists in the white of “winters snow,” in the innocence of an un-tampered-with child.  God exists in the dreams of children, like the speaker’s friend Tom from the first version of “The Chimney Sweeper.”  Perhaps the speaker, as an adult, is “happy & dance[s] and sing[s]” because he remembers that eventually he will “have God for his father and never want joy.”  God exists in the songs of the innocent.  He does not, Blake implies, exist in the experience of society.