Buddhism is a single religion because each of its schools rely on the merit of generosity.  To be “generous” is to give liberally or to be free of meanness and smallness of mind and character.  Each school of Buddhism revolves around this idea of “being generous” and it is for this reason that Buddhism is a single entity, a single religion.  	To begin, the Hinayana school’s reliance on both the doctrine of karma and on the Buddha shows its ensuing reliance on generosity.  “Karma” refers to the law of cause and effect which states that virtuous actions cause happiness in the future while non-virtuous actions cause suffering.  By nature, virtuous actions lead to charitable actions.  The “Illumination of the Five Realms of Existence” text, a text that uses karma’s theory to show how certain actions lead to certain results, provides examples of actions that lead to rebirth within each of the different realms.  Within the “Human Being Section,” generosity is a common theme.  For example, the sections states:  “Whoever offers a garden, the refuge of all creatures, would be reborn worshipped with flowers, be always rich and glorious” (Lopez 14).  It further states:  “Whoever gives food here on earth is always reborn to comfort, given long life, beauty and strength, is wise and avoids disease” (Lopez 13-14).  To reap good karma, one must be generous.  Some may argue that these actions are not executed out of generosity seeing as members of the Hinayana give to others for the sake of a personal gain of good karma.  However, the “Human Being Section” further says that “Whoever gives something for the good of others, with heart full of sympathy, not heeding his own good, reaps unspoiled fruit” (Lopez 15).  Therefore, karma, as it is defined by the Hinayana, does take selfless compassion into account.  The law of karma relies on the concept of “intention”: if the intention of the generous person is faulty, good karma may not be gained.  If this rebuttal is unsatisfactory, “generosity” means to give freely.  The act of giving freely is not undermined by selfish incentive.	However, the Hinayana school undeniably regards the Buddha as the most generous of all beings.  After speaking with the Brahma Sahampati in the “Ariyapariyesana Sutra”, the sutra within which the Buddha describes the narrative surrounding his enlightenment, the Buddha said that he “saw beings with little dust in their eyes and with much dust in their eyes” (Lopez 113).  Thus, to teach this dharma that “is profound, hard to see and hard to understand...” (Lopez 111) was not to be an easy task, yet the charitable Buddha set out to teach.  He said the following later in that same sutra:  “I go now to the city of Kasi/To set in motion the wheel of the dhamma/In a world that has become blind/I go to beat the drum of the deathless” (Lopez 114).  His generosity, however, preceded his life as the Buddha.  Prior to becoming a Buddha, he sought the bodhisattva path and vowed to teach the dharma for the sake of all sentient beings.  As the bodhisattva Sumedha (the bodhisattva who would eventually become our Gautama Buddha), and during many bodhisattva lives following, he chose not to hear the teachings of the dharma so as not to become enlightened.  In this way, he postponed his own cessation of suffering to remain in the cycle of suffering that is samsara.  He charitably did this for the sake of sentient beings.  In fact, it was Sumedha’s generous act of lying down in the mud in order to create a path for the venerable one which caused the venerable Dipamkara Buddha to say, “This is one who will be a buddha” (Lopez 118).  This was the prophecy that made it possible for Sumedha to eventually become a Buddha.  It is in these many ways that the Hinayana school relies on generosity.	Within the Mahayana school of Buddhism, the Buddha is still revered as the most generous of all beings and the law of karma still stands.  By this reasoning alone, the merit of generosity is prevalent to the Mahayana school of Buddhism as well.  However, the Mahayana school is based on the concern that the Buddha is not perceived as ultimately generous within the Hinayana school of thought.  Within The Lotus Sutra, the sutra that gave rise to the Mahayana, Gautama Buddha says:  “I would be ungenerous/If I were to lead and inspire even a single person/Through an inferior vehicle [nirvana]” (The Lotus Sutra 35).  The Mahayana school believes that as the Buddha is the most generous of all beings, he would never lead sentient beings to nirvana, to an “enlightenment” less than his own.  Therefore, the Mahayana dispels the notion of the sravaka and pratyekabuddha vehicles in favor of the bodhisattva vehicle as the only path which our generous Buddha would ever teach sentient beings to follow.	Thus, the premise of the Mahayana is that the Buddha, and all buddhas before him, spun the wheel of the dharma two times.  The Buddha spun the first wheel of the dharma, however, as skillful means in order to charitably help beings understand the true dharma.  This is described within the parable of the Apparitional City found in The Lotus Sutra.  Within this parable, a group of people desires to travel to a place where they will find a wonderful treasure.  However, the people become exhausted and therefore desire to turn back and abandon their mission.  Thus, “the leader, through his skillful means, magically creates a city” (The Lotus Sutra 131) as a place for the people to rest.  He then says, “Once you are able to go on and reach the treasure site, then you can depart once more” (The Lotus Sutra 131).  In this parable, the apparitional city is nirvana and the treasure is true enlightenment, or buddhahood.  The Mahayana school believes that the Buddha generously used skillful means in order to help sentient beings understand the dharma, in order to charitably give them a rest along their journey to enlightenment.	Therefore, as the bodhisattva path remains the only vehicle to enlightenment, “eighty thousand bodhisattva[s]” (The Lotus Sutra 3) were on the mountain with the Buddha within The Lotus Sutra.  This detail is included in The Lotus Sutra in order to show that everyone has the ability to become a bodhisattva, to show that everyone has tathagatagarbha, or buddha nature.   Thus, as everyone has this “essence” (Lopez 555) of a generous buddha within them, the prevalence of generosity within the Mahayana school is heightened.  Each person desiring to become a bodhisattva, must then develop bodhicitta, “enlightenment mind” or the desire to achieve enlightenment for the sake of all beings (Lopez 550).  Each person desiring to become a bodhisattva must then “vow to achieve buddhahood in order to free all beings in the universe from suffering” (Lopez 388).  Within the Mahayana, in order to achieve the ultimate enlightenment, one must be ultimately generous in this way.  	To heighten the prevalence of generosity even further, the Mahayana reverses the Hinayana ideal which says that only one Buddha must exist in the world at a time.  Within The Lotus Sutra, the Buddha says that “Anyone who follows this expounder’s instructions,/Will be able to meet budhas/Equal in number to the sands of the Ganges River” (The Lotus Sutra 3).  Therefore, within the Mahayana, the sheer number of generous beings is amplified.  Multiple buddhas may exist at a time, because each buddha has his own specified buddha field.  The Pure Land school within the Mahayana relies on what is known as the best buddha field in existence (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).  This pure land is known as Sukhavati, or the Land of Bliss and it came into existence thanks to the bodhisattva Dharmakara’s generosity.  Dharmakara once asked the Buddha that came before him to describe all of the buddha lands.  Upon hearing all of the descriptions, Dharmakara combined the best qualities of all of the different buddha lands into a series of vows saying, “May I not become a Buddha...” unless his buddha land includes all of these best characteristics (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).	Dharmakara became the buddha Amitabha and because of his generous vows, his pure land is now “adorned with arrays of such excellent qualities, qualities that are unique to buddha-fields,” (Lopez 62) as our Gautama Buddha describes it to Sariputra in “The Wonderful Panoply of the Land of Bliss” short sutra.  Because it has all of the best characteristics of all former pure lands, Amitabha’s pure land is the place where learning the dharma is easiest.  One of the qualities of this pure land, as Gautama Buddha says, is that “Three times a night, three times a day [the wild geese] gather together and form a chorus... proclaim[ing] the spiritual faculties, the spiritual powers and the elements of awakening” (Lopez 64).  Thus, practicing the dharma is made much easier in this pure land--so easy, in fact, that each person born in this pure land will become a Buddha in his next lifetime.  But perhaps the most generous characteristic of Amitabha  Buddha’s is that he allows anyone who says “Namu Amida Butsu” into his kingdom.  This is considered especially generous of Amitabha Buddha, because it allows people living during mappo, an age during which following the path is fairly impossible, a chance to achieve enlightenment (Lopez lecture, Nov. 8).  It is for these reasons that Amitabha Buddha is viewed as exceptionally generous.  It is in this way that the Pure Land school of the Mahayana relies on generosity.	To continue, as the Pure Land school is part of the Mahayana, it still relies on the bodhisattva path and still revers the Buddha as the most generous of all beings and the law of karma still stands.  By this reasoning, the merit of generosity is further prevalent to the Pure Land school of Buddhism.  This same reasoning can be applied to the Zen and Tantra schools of Buddhism as they too are part of the Mahayana.  Still, the merit of generosity is more deeply embedded within these two schools as well.  To begin with Zen, it first must be said that some may argue that this school does not rely on generosity of others and that the “dharma-wheel... is not the preaching of someone else’s teaching nor does it rely on another’s power,” as the Japanese Zen master Bassui Tokusho said in a lecture (Lopez 533).  That is all very well and true in Zen Buddhism, but perhaps generosity exists in a different form within the Zen teachings (in addition to the formerly mentioned tenants that stand true to all forms of Mahayana Buddhism).  	To elaborate, generosity can be understood to exist in the very nature of the Mu Koan.  The Mu Koan asks the following:  “Does a dog have the buddha nature?” (Lopez lecture Nov. 27).  While koans are meant to make one think, meant to cause one doubt, meant to allow one to somehow recognize the nature of one’s own mind, the Mu Koan can be understood to explain that all beings, even the lowly dogs of the street, have the buddha nature (Lopez lecture, Nov. 27).  The answer to this koan is “Yes, a dog does have the buddha nature,” suggesting that it is important to be generous to all, even to a dog, the dirtiest animal on the streets of India, as all beings have the buddha nature.  It would be unsound to treat a being with the charitable buddha nature any way other than generously.  It is for this reason that one should be generous to all beings.	To continue with Tantra, it must first be said that some may argue that this school does not rely on generosity, but that it rather ignores it in the way it reverses social conventions and the conventions of “purity” and “pollution.”  This is understandable and Virupa, the “ugly monk” who saw past the conventions of his original monastery is an example.  Under the instruction of his bum teacher Tilopa, Virupa pulled a bridegroom off its chariot.  Virupa did this as a trial which was, supposedly, helping him along the path (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  	However, Tantra relies on the fact that there is a “hidden yet indestructible reality that is said to lie within each being in the universe, waiting to be uncovered,” as Lopez’s introduction to  “Hymn to the Dharmadhatu” says (Lopez 465).  This is to say that even the impurest beings of all contain a sort of “indestructible reality.” In fact, in Tantra’s version of “emptiness,” there are no valid distinctions between one being and another.  Thus social conventions, specifically the caste system, get turned upside down (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  	To build upon this, Tantra teaches radical statements such as the following statement found in “Hymn to the Dharmadhatu,” the figurative description of Tantra’s version of emptiness in conjunction with the indestructible yet hidden reality:  “Abandoning conceptions and designations about phenomena that commonly come to mind, meditate on the lack of intrinsic nature of phenomena as the dharmadhatu” (Lopez 470).  By this idea that is the dharmadhatu, Tilopa, the bum who instructed Viropa to pull down the bridegroom,  is considered a great teacher (Lopez lecture, Nov. 29).  Taking these characteristics of Tantra into consideration, it can be argued that that which is considered socially “virtuous” and what is considered socially “non-virtuous” may be flipped in the Tantra reality.  Or rather, distinctions such as “virtuous” and “non-virtuous” may not exist at all.  This allows for a reinterpretation of the law of karma.  As such, Tantra transcends all social constructs, all ideas about what can be considered “virtuous” in society.  This, thus, generously gives the lowest caste systems equal chance at achieving enlightenment.  Even those at the bottom of the caste system, those viewed as most “impure” or, perhaps, “non-virtuous” have the chance to achieve enlightenment just as anybody else.  It is in this way that Tantra actively promotes a more generous ethics.  	In these ways, each school of Buddhism relies on the merit of generosity.  Buddhism as a whole, as a single entity that encompasses all of these different schools can further be viewed as an intrinsically generous entity.  To illustrate this, Buddhism as a religion can be compared to the Buddha.  The Buddha has the ability to teach better than anybody else.  All he has to say is “A” in order to make each being in his audience understand.  Upon his utterance of “A,” each being will hear what he or she needs to hear in order to understand.  The Buddha accomplishes this, because he understands what is in everyone’s mind. He understands everyone’s background.  It is through this compassionate understanding of all beings that the Buddha is able to be the best teacher that there is (Lopez lecture, Oct 23).  Buddhism as a single entity, a single religion, is similar.  It offers many different schools of teaching so that any type of person can find a teaching that he or she relates to, that he or she understands.  Buddhism is like the Buddha, because though it is called by a single name, it encompasses many different ways by which people can reach enlightenment, depending on their belief system.  For example, a person who believes himself to be living in the degenerate age may understand the Pure Land school best.  A person of the lowest caste system may understand the Tantra school best.  A person who seeks only cessation from suffering may understand the Hinayana school best, and so on.  It can be interpreted that Buddhism as a religion generously makes itself understandable to all types of people.  It is for these reasons that Buddhism is a single entity, a single religion.  