“You don’t eat no meat?  You don’t eat no meat? That’s okay, I make lamb.”	Sugar cube in mouth, tea in hand, laughter in ears, you’re sitting around a long table.  You haven’t lifted a finger.  You’re the guest.  	“Will you stay for dinner? You have to stay. Have you eaten?”	“Oh no, I don’t want to impo--” 		But the conversation and laughter is contagious and smiling you know you have to stay, you want to stay.	“Our family is exactly like the one in My Big Fat Greek Wedding,” senior Kayvon Kashani-Gharavi said laughing. “My dad thinks that everything originates in Iran.”	While it may be hard to prove that everything originates in Iran, the Iranian passports and old exit permits leaves no doubt that this family did.	Kayvon’s father Saudegh Kashani-Gharavi grew up in Iran and came to the United States to earn an education in 1978. But putting a snag in his plan, an Iranian revolution broke out in 1979 making it too dangerous for him to return.  To make matters worse, the United States broke ties with Iran in 1980.	However, it was not all bad news for Mr. Kashani-Gharavi. In fact, by the genuine happiness that exudes from his kitchen table, it’s hard to know that such hard events make up his history at all. 	According to Kayvon’s uncle Sina Kashani-Gharavi, Mr. Kashani-Gharavi came to the United States “desperately seeking Linda [Kayvon’s mom,]” whom he married and started his half-Iranian, half-American family with.	But according to Kayvon and family, being half-Iranian and half-American is complicated at times for a few different reasons.  	The first is the difficulty of travel, the second is the mandatory draft in Iran, and the third is the U.S. - Iranian political relations.	“Iran is one of those countries where it’s hard for us to protect you,” is Mr. Kashani-Gharavi’s interpretation of the United State’s stance on travel to Iran. 	Because of the countries’ poor relationship, travel from the United States to Iran is fairly unpredictable and keeps many families from returning.	However, the Kashani-Gharavis’ travel history have no bumps in the road thanks to their careful planning and executing.	Last year, however, Kayvon could not return to Iran. 	True as it is that Kayvon and his three older siblings are dual-citizens of the United States and Iran, according to the Bureau of Consular Affairs in the U.S. Department of State, the Iranian government does not recognize dual citizenship and approaches dual citizens “solely as Iranian citizens subject to Iranian laws.”	One such Iranian law is the mandatory draft of boys over 16 years of age who have not enrolled in a university.  But as an Americanized Iranian, the draft presents perplexing possibilities, ones that mother Linda Kashani-Gharavi is not comfortable with.	“He doesn’t even speak farsi... we don’t know what would happen in a situation like that,” Mrs. Kashani-Gharavi said of the mandatory draft applying to Kayvon. “It would be awful for any of my boys.  It’s not going to be beneficial for the government and it would be very difficult for them.”	According to Mr. Kashani-Gharavi, it would have been safe for Kayvon to return to Iran for up to three months had the trip not been scheduled over the Iranian New Year which falls on March 21.  	But because Kayvon has plans of attending Oakland University in the fall, he, like his brothers, will soon be exempted from the mandatory draft and will again be able to return to Iran.	And yet the complications of being half-Iranian and half-American continue from day to day just living in the United States, according to Kayvon.	With the United State’s sanctions against Iran come mixed feelings and even terror from Iranian citizens in the United States.	“We heard Mitt Romney say that his first day in office he is gong to bomb Iran,” Kayvon said. “Having to hear that is really scary... to think about my family there...”  	While the Iranian and American governments have their differences, the Iranian people’s opinion of America generally does no align with those of their government making the tension between countries that much more frustrating for Kayvon and his family.	“Whenever people understand that I’m from the U.S., they say ‘Are you from America?’ They say it in farsi and it’s always quiet. And I say yes. ‘I have a brother and he lives in New York...’” Mrs. Kashani-Gharavi said smiling, remembering a past trip to Iran.	But right then Mr. Kashani-Gharavi’s voice draws the attention to the other side of the table.	“Give me a word, any word and I show you that the root of that word is from Iran.”	Everyone is laughing and Kayvon is saying that instead of windex like in My Big Fat Greek Wedding, it’s garlic that heals everything.	“You know, I was watching My Big Fat Greek Wedding, and at the end of the movie, at the end of the credits, I saw a name and he was from Iran... so there you go.” 