Costumes.  That is the link I see between these two images.  The first is a gelatin silver print by Lucien Clergue, entitled Harlequin.  The second a color lithograph by Guy Krogh, untitled, but referenced to as “Four children in costumes.”  Neither defines childhood, but both comment on childhood’s malleability.  In Clergue’s Harlequin image, I see a little boy in what must be a dance costume patterned with eccentric, repetitive diamonds.  He is wearing jazz shoes and is posing for the photo with an obedience contested by the glare on his face.  He is very visibly unhappy, angry even.  He wears the look I think my own brother would wear if placed in such an outfit and made to pose.  I would be scared of a child wearing this look, frankly.  On that note, the image seems to imply that a sort of authority figure, the one presumably taking the photo, has forced this little boy into this situation.   That presumed child-adult scenario playing out in this image, however, is almost overshadowed by the persona the boy takes on in this costume and accompanied attitude.  His stance, smoothed hair, and young face give him a Peter Pan-esk look.  The costume feminizes him a bit, and my impression is that he’s angry about it.  He’s angry at the adult who stands just behind the camera.In Krogh’s image, the children wear costumes in a much different way.  They, too, remind me of Peter Pan, but for a different reason.  They appear like the lost boys, almost, like boys lost in childhood without parents, maybe.  Three of the four boys in this image are very tall, as if on the cusp of adulthood.  But all four remain very obviously children.  These costumes, too, are extremely nonsensical in that it is hard for my adult-trained mind to give names to any of the beings that these children have become.  In contrast to the Harlequin, too, these nonsensical costumes suggest that perhaps the children created their own costumes.  Perhaps they truly embody a Peter Pan-ness that frees them from adult-set categories or already-established costumes.  Another significant aspect of this image is that these children’s costumes are built, to a certain degree, from nature.  One boy is wearing an animal slung across his chest while another hangs a fish from a poll, for example.  One could say that this image, therefore, embodies a sort of Rousseauian ideal of nurturing the child in nature.  I would agree with that to a certain extent, but more so I would argue that this image suggests that these children are nurturing themselves “nonsensically” to the adult world, doing what they please in the context of the natural world.The settings of both images, too, are significant.  Krogh’s costumed children stand in a doorway, seemingly outsiders to the house, to the domestic sphere where parents and rules reign.  The outside world, nature, perhaps, is juxtaposed to the domestic sphere, depicted as the blue and black backdrop to the children.  This depiction, I think, suggests that these children come from the unknown, the world that exists outside of the societally accepted one where parents reign over their children and work to mold them, to costume them how they please.  The Harlequin image, too, mixes the ideas of domesticity and whatever exists beyond, I think.  The image’s backdrop is one of an old building which nature seems to be overtaking.  I say that with a grain of salt, however, as the pile of sticks in the left hand corner of the image is just that, a pile.  Humans pile sticks and lean them against walls in that way.  While the Krogh image allows both nature and the children to appear utterly undomesticated, this Harlequin image domesticates or controls both nature and the child.  The costumed child sort of parallels the dressed or molded natural elements.  Both nature and the child, in this image, are controlled.To continue, the titles of both pieces are also significant.  “Harlequin” is defined as “a mute character in traditional pantomime, typically masked and dressed in a diamond-patterned costume” known as a stock character from Italian theatre (dictionary).  This superimposes the idea of a character with an already established role to play over the child.  I therefore interpret this connection as a suggestion that the adult figure in this child’s life is attempting to give him a role to play in the world, to mold him, to make him a mute clown, to strip him of the personal freedom that the children in the Krogh painting seem to maintain.  Contrarily, Krogh’s painting is untitled.  To me, the lack of a title suggests an investment in the child’s imagination and in the audience’s imagination, too.  Krogh does not give a name to the children’s nonsensical appearance because to do so would be to contradict the image, to superimpose the adult world over the free children.  Both Clergue’s Harlequin and Krogh’s untitled piece associate children with wildness.  Harlequin seems to suggest that a child’s wildness is not easily tamed, not easily muted, noted particularly in the child’s glare at the photographer.  The untitled piece seems to suggest that, apart from a domestic space, a child is wild, is creative, is nonsensical, and is aggressive even (see the dead animals.)  The fact that both images deal with costumes, too, implies that neither of these scenarios actually depicts the natural child.  It is when a costume is removed that we see the true, natural being emerge. Therefore, both images leave the real essence of childhood as mysterious to adults as the concept of Peter Pan.  And I think that is how it should be. 