A first perspective:  Upon first viewing Charles Ferdinand Wimar’s painting The Attack on an Emigrant Train, the onlooker will see “pilgrims.”  He will see “newcomer[s] to a region or place, especially to the western U.S.” (Dictionary.com).  Upon first reading Annie Dillard’s novel Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, the reader will see a “pilgrim.”  He will see “a traveler or a wanderer, especially in a foreign place” (Dictionary.com). 	A second perspective:  Upon viewing the painting and reading the novel more closely, the beholder may still see “pilgrims.”  He may see “[people] who journey... to some sacred place as an act of religious devotion” (Dictionary.com).	A third perspective:  “Pilgrims” are also “settler[s] in a region” (Dictionary.com).  They integrate themselves into the land around them.  They not only observe, but also interact.  Therefore, by their use of perspective, both Wimar’s painting and Dillard’s novel work to show that while self-consciousness is “God-given,” or innate, it ironically distracts from God or the “creator” (Dillard 80).	Pilgrims journey.  The pilgrims in Wimar’s painting journey westward in a religious commitment to “Manifest Destiny--the belief that European Americans had... a Christian duty to expand throughout the North American continent” (UMMA).  At the same time, the pilgrim in Dillard’s novel (Dillard herself) journeys into nature, a nature Linda Smith, author of Annie Dillard, interprets as “the stimulus” (Smith 18) to the “un-mediated experience of the presence of God” (Smith 18).  However, Dillard only discovers this “un-mediated experience” after seeing the world, of which she is a part, from a perspective that reveals the self-aware and parasitic nature of nature (Dillard 243).  	A fourth perspective:  A parasite latches onto another being as a means of sustenance.  The bug is aware of its body’s need for food, essentially, and therefore latches on to another.  While not all beings are parasitic by nature, the same sort of idea extends to nature as a whole.  For example, Dillard illustrates “a frog being sucked by a water bug” (8).  This water bug is aware of its body’s need for food and therefore eats the frog from the inside out.  If a being is hungry, it will eat.  Thus, self-awareness or self-consciousness is a God-given, innate quality that determines survival.  Of this self-aware nature of nature, Dillard says:  “We want it; we take it out of each other’s hides; we chew the bitter skins the rest of our lives” (243). The irony prevails.	A fifth perspective:  The emigrants face away from the sun (Wimar).  It is sunrise in Wimar’s painting.  As the image depicts “westward expansion,” the sun is in the east.  The emigrants move away from this sunrise and cast shadows forward onto the land they explore and onto the people they encounter.  As shadows are, in a way, projections of the beings that cast them, it can be interpreted that Wimar’s painting encompasses the idea that the emigrants cast projections of their Christian selves onto the beings in front of them, onto the natives.  The emigrants are self-aware, they understand their own religion to such an extent that it casts a shadow, a lack of understanding onto the spirituality of the natives they desire to convert.  	A sixth perspective:  The natives face the sun (Wimar).  It can be interpreted that in Wimar’s painting the sun symbolizes enlightenment or unity with the “creator.”  As the natives face the sun while the emigrants do not, it can be interpreted that Wimar suggests that the natives’ lesser degree of self-consciousness is more in-tuned with the ideas of the creator.  They attack not out of a desire to convert, a desire to project themselves onto the emigrants, but out of a desire to protect their own beliefs.  To further advance this idea, two natives in this painting have been shot by the emigrants.  Both, in this painting’s moment, are dying.  These two natives, during this moment in which death and life unite, die with their torsos facing upward, as if embracing the sky, the sun, and, presumably, the creator.  Juxtaposed to these natives is the wounded emigrant dying in the shadow of the cart.  Thus, less self-awareness leads to a higher degree of unity with the creator.	A seventh perspective:  Annie Dillard writes that she “[has] never understood why so many mystics of all creeds experience the presence of God on mountaintops.  Aren’t they afraid of being blown away?” (Dillard 90).  Here, Dillard means “blown away” in a very literal sense.  Why does the mystic on top of a mountaintop project his God onto the mountaintop and onto the world he sees from it?  Presumably from the desire to qualify what he sees, right?  To qualify his own existence and to qualify the existence of the God that will bring him his salvation.  Dillard points out that by committing one’s self to this abstraction, a man forgets about the wind, the tangible qualities of the place where he stands (90).	An eighth perspective:  “It often feels best to lay low, inconspicuous, instead of waving your spirit around from high places like a lightning rod” (90).  It is here that Dillard forces her reader to step back from the self-consciousness that is faith to the grander consciousness that is the reality of the mountain.  Waving one’s spirt around, attempting to project it onto beings other than one’s self, is surely dangerous.  Wimar’s painting is proof.  The emigrants wave their spirits around, allowing self-consciousness to distract from seeing the rest of the world, from seeing God.  This lack of seeing leads to the natives’ attack.  In this painting, lightning strikes.  	A ninth perspective:  To contrast with the self-aware mountain-top worshiper, Dillard describes a moment at a gas station petting a puppy and watching a mountain, “[her] mind.. a blank slab of black asphalt for hours” (79).  She feels the world around her, leaving herself out of the picture.  But soon the allusion of sorts ends, because she acknowledges “this awareness in [her] brain” (80).  She then realizes that “the one thing that all religions recognize as separating us from our creator--our very self-consciousness--is also the one thing that divides us from our fellow creatures” (80).  Thus, can it not also be interpreted that the nature of the creator exists in “our fellow creatures?”	A tenth perspective:  According the Christianity, the nature of our creator has existed in “our fellow creatures” quite explicitly.  Jesus was the human incarnation of God, of the creator.  Within the cart of Wimar’s painting sits a woman.  This woman holds a baby and looks directly into the eye of the observer, into the eye of the painting (Wimar).  She resembles the Virgin Mary, mother of baby Jesus.  Her accusing stare suggests a connection with the outside world.  The way she shields the baby suggests an aversion to the ongoing fight, suggests that she sees it as a threat to her baby, her baby that will one day show the world, by example, that God exists in all beings.  He is the explicit link to God within one of “our fellow creatures.”  Thus, the baby is linked to the natives and to all other beings.  Perhaps the painting suggests that God exists innately in all beings and that only a removal of self-consciousness and a replacement of universal-consciousness, an acceptance of all beings, will paint the full picture of the creator.	Perhaps the pilgrimage necessary to finding God is not an internal journey, but an external one.  Perhaps beings are meant to “experience God by completely emptying the mind and the soul” (Smith 18).  Perhaps to experience the outside world is to experience God.