I lived in the same house, in the same town from first grade until twelfth grade.  Twelve years, one house.  One home.  But this year I left. I went to college to grow up.  I went away from the backyard where Dad taught me how to kick a soccer ball far into the neighbor’s garden, away from the living room, away from my brother in his armchair and the sports announcers’ voices, and away from my bed and the dogs who would hog all the covers.  Away from home.  I cried when I hugged my mom for the last time before moving, saying, “I don’t want to leave home.”  My mom cried when I visited my house a couple months later and said, “Shoot, I left my backpack at home,” referring to my dorm room in Ann Arbor.   	As humans, we are programed to be conditioned, to be shaped by our surroundings.  We are programed to be encultured by the society around us, by our parents, by what we grow up “knowing” to be true.  It starts right at birth when our parents bring us home from the hospital.  We immediately begin to be conditioned into our “homes.”  According to Yi-Fu Tuan, “the first environment an infant explores is his parent” (Jackson 1995: 121).   I grew up watching my dad go running every other morning.  Soon I wanted to too, and now I do.  I learned to do by example.  Parents are the “who” we are conditioned to, but what about the “what” or the “where”?  In the ideas of Gaston Bachelard, for us in the western world, “the house [is] our ‘first universe’… it shelters our daydreaming, cradles our thoughts and memories, and provides us with a sense of stability” (Jackson 1995: 86).  By this logic, it is not surprising that we grow up thinking of “home” as a building which houses our parents, perhaps.  But perhaps the only real reason we regard this building as a “home” is that we were conditioned, trained, or encultured to do so right alongside all of the other westernized, globalized children.  But just as we can be conditioned, we can also condition ourselves.  We humans, as a species, are capability of redefining, or un-defining what has been defined for us.  If we so desire, we can uproot that globalized definition of “home” in order to define it for ourselves. 	But before we can efficiently uproot anything, we need to find the roots of this powerful, western, globalized definition of “home.”  Though the seeds may have come somewhere else long ago, let us focus on the first roots planted here, in America, as a sort of point of reference or model of a possible beginning. We westerners started building a home in America only a few hundred years ago.  From Europe we brought with us the idea that people “own” the land and that land must be productive.  We thought of land rights, of sectioning off pieces of land, and of distributing it.  We thought of using the land and all it had to offer (discussion, April 7, 2013).   We thought of money.  We were detached from the land and thought of ourselves as an entity separate from it, an entity that needed roofs over our heads to shelter ourselves from the unknown wilds of America.  We were new, different, and more powerful than the Natives and since that initial distinction was made, “invidious distinctions between us and them are [now] customarily promulgated in the West” (Jackson 1995: 62).	We made, and still make, distinctions and classifications.  The English language itself assumes distinctions that, perhaps, do not actually exist.  In his novel At Home in the World Michael Jackson notes that we use nouns in some instances where verbs might be more in-tune with reality.  Unlike English, the Hopi language classifies “lightning, stormcloud, and flame as verbs because they are transitory” (Jackson 1995: 6).  Similarly, in the Nooka language, “you don’t say ‘house, “ but ‘it houses’…” (Jackson 1995: 6).  The very language we speak conditions us to be predisposed to thinking in a certain way.  Maybe we can begin to uproot.  Maybe the idea of “home” is then more about somewhere that “houses” instead of the physical “house.”	But to further understand, let us continue to think about our houses.  In order to have a house, what do we need?  Money.  Just as we have been conditioned to think of house as home, we have also been conditioned to think of money as necessity.  Without money, we would have no house, no home, is the conditioned misconception we are left with.  As he describes in his novel, Jackson made a home for himself among the Walpiri, an Australian aboriginal people.  According to Zack, one of Jackson’s Walpiri friends, “Gold is the whitefella’s Dreaming,” (Jackson 1995: 91).  In other words, gold or money is what guides the lives of the white men who descended upon native Walpiri lands.  Jackson goes on to say that “gold is both a material thing and a metaphor.  Good as gold.  Worth its weight in gold.  The gold mean” (Jackson 1995: 92).   Gold, gold, gold.  Money, money, money.  We live our lives from day to day to make money.  We go to grueling school to get a job to make money to buy this house that is, supposedly, a home.  But what is money, really?  Without the ideas which society has conditioned us to believe, money is just a piece of paper.  One we can easily rip, no less.  By the same token, a house is just a building.  One we can un-build.  	But now let us look more closely at the Walpiri, a people who westernized people have classified as a “them.”  As the Walpiri are also humans, they too are programmed to be conditioned, programmed to be encultured.  But how different their culture is from ours.  Walpiri do not grow up being conditioned to houses but rather to the natural world.  According to Jackson, “…Aboriginal belief [is] that children were born of a place as well as of human parents, that each person is an incarnation of a landscape” (Jackson 1995: 16).  They do not grow up being conditioned primarily by their parents, but rather by the community. Each Walpiri person is born into one of eight skin groups, a sort of lucid classification system which basically means “…every person [is] related to every other person in a determinate way” (Jackson 1995: 20-21).    By this sort of interconnected web of people, all people of a certain other skin group are considered your “fathers,” all people of a certain other skin group your “mothers,” etc.  But this interconnected web does not include only people.  As each person is “an incarnation of a landscape,” nature also holds an important spot on this web.  A tree can be a father, for example, and according to Sam, one of Jackson’s aboriginal friends, “We call the country mother” (Jackson 1995: 22).  	So what can we define as the Walpiri’s notion of “home?”  Jackson describes his friend and important aboriginal leader, Pincher’s house as “more of a storeroom than a dwelling” (Jackson 1995:31).  So, if not a house, then what?  Perhaps it is the word “definition” itself that hinders our attempt to understand the Walpiri notion of “home.”  There is not definition.  Perhaps it lies somewhere in their concept of the “Dreaming” which, based on a culmination of all of Jackson’s novel, seems to mean a sort of unity between land, people, and time.  But that is not a definition. It, too, has no “definition.”  See, when Jackson asked Pincher whether home was in the Dreaming or in the house, though, “Pincher understandably ignored it” (Jackson 1995: 35).	So, yes, “our” culture and “theirs” each shape very different members of the same species.  However, with globalization comes a new, mixed sort of enculturation… or assimilation, rather.  White Australians tried to teach Aborigines their defined ways.  But, as each culture is so different, just as the whites could not understand the Aborigines’ ways, the Aborigines could not understand the whites’ ways, could not force themselves to fit into such a closed system having come from a polarized, open one.  So, white Australians decided that Aborigines needed to learn the ways of the “civilized.”  They took Aboriginal children from their families to be encultured and raised into white society (Jackson 1995: 11).  They gave them a house to call home.  But why is our western system of houses and money and property better?  Is it just because we are the more powerful, more globalized group?	Before we define an answer, let us look at another “them.”  Let us look at the natives of Tanzania.  The documentary Darwin’s Nightmare showed children sleeping on the streets, people fighting over small amounts of food, women forced into prostitution, among many other scenes that words could not do justice to.  There is a famine in Tanzania and yet the fish caught by its natives feeds 2 million Europeans every day (Darwin’s Nightmare 2004).  The natives of Tanzania are conditioned to live with this hypocrisy for no reason other than that they have to.  The only work people seem to be able to get is through the fishing industry feeding this hypocrisy.  In the office of one of the fishing companies, in fact, a sign read “You’re part of the big system.”  To heighten this real-life drama, though, is the fact that the fish being caught are an invasive species to Tanzania’s Lake Victoria.  It is called Nile Trout and was introduced to the lake by a foreigner who was, perhaps, trying to globalize the lake.  And the fish ate everything.  All native species are now gone.  Biodiversity is erased and the Tanzanians are left to survive on this one species which, when it dies out, will leave them with no way to sustain themselves (Darwin’s Nightmare 2004).  The root of the problem?  Money.  Money we need to build our houses and to define our lives on material items.	Can we really say that our system, a system that exploits natural resources and focuses on earning money is the best system?  We westerners, in a way, are like this destructive fish.  We eat, we take, and we consume the natural resources of our lands and the lands of other people.  We exploit and we earn money so that we can build the houses that define our lives, which define our homes. We globalize and destroy the diversity of the world’s people.  If we continue our ways, if we do not uproot our conditioned ideas, we will leave the world to maintain itself with only an unsustainable monoculture standing behind it.  We are capable of un-defining what has been defined for us, and we must.  It is our turn to borrow the Walpiri notions of a universal “home” amongst people and the land. 	After his time spent with the Walpiri, Jackson wrote that to be “at home in the world… is to experience a complete consonance between one’s own body and the body of the earth.  Between self and other.  It little matters whether the other is a landscape, a loved one, a house, or an action.”  I realize that my home here in college has become exactly that.  My home is now a relationship between my friends here, my family at home, and the world around me.  Without knowing it, I uprooted that solid “definition” of home.  Now, instead of a defined “something,” home is where, why, and how I am happy.  It is how I survive.