	Saturday morning, November 3rd:  Tantré Farm.  I now understand why the Tantré trip is such a staple of the Environmental Action Club (EnAct.)  Older members of EnAct had been talking up the trip, well, since the very first meeting--since right after the first round of introductions.  I now understand why our club continues its relationship with Tantré farm. I understand why it goes back year after year.  	To me Tantré seems like both a work of the past and a work of the future.  Its structure is simple, really.  It relies on the hands of multiple live-in workers who come from all different stages of life including college graduates, young married couples, divorced people, people looking for something new in life, and of course Deb Lentz, one of the owners of the farm, her husband, and little girl.  They all live and work together growing local food which they themselves eat in addition to sell to the local community.  Thinking back,  Tantré’s community reminds me of The Economics of Happiness and the idea that local-growing food improves community relationships.  The community was one of the most friendly, most self-sustaining communities I’ve ever encountered.  Deb Lentz talked a little bit about what it was like to raise her daughter in this community.  She sounded so happy.	Tantré’s goal “is to produce and distribute fresh, organic produce, while serving as an educational, sustainable, and social network for our surrounding community.”  During our morning visit to Tantré, Deb Lentz carried out this goal by incorporating us into the farm’s Saturday morning.  She first talked to us about the farm, educating us about the way the farm works and on the importance of eating locally--she acknowledged that local food is the way of the future, that this is the path we must take.  	Then the real fun began.  We walked to a little field, eating the final berries off the bushes along the way.  This field was where the last crops of the season were being planted.  We helped the little family of farmers drop the last garlic pits into the little holes poked at careful distances away from each other.  It was freezing, but I loved it.  After that, we went and pet the cows and the chickens.  One of the chickens jumped out of its fencing, clucking toward Libby and one of the cows kissed Hayley.  There was a sort of unity between food and animals and plants and planters.  So strange and so refreshing.	Everything about the day felt pure to me.  It felt like what I’ve always pictured and envied in old books, books that describe the way a farming family of the past used to live and eat simply.  It was the beginning of November and the berries that still clung to the bushes were the best berries I’ve ever tasted.  The same goes for the carrots that we ate straight out of the ground (no pesticides to worry about here.)  So in this way, this farm seemed to capture the past.  But I’m willing to bet that if the rest of the world had the opportunity to taste those berries and to really feel this community, it would understand that this is a very viable way of the future.  Local isn’t only better for the environment and sustainability, it’s just better.