Pain.  The kind one wants to feel—rest. Laughter.  The kind one needs to hear—rest.  A story.  One that’s meant to tell—rest.  A dancer.  One that lives to dance—rest.She walks into the room like a girl lost in herself.  Slowly.  Her head turns and eyes lock with the audience.  And now they’re lost too. Quickly.  Quickly she moves slowly.  Gracefully she bends frantically.  Lost she is focused.  Stopped she is moving.  Enraged she is calm.  Adrift she is resolved.  Resolved in her dance.  Relieved of her emotion.Michelle Snyder danced her “Relief” dance at the Hall of Fame Dance Challenge in Orlando, Florida, on Aug. 26, 2010.  “There were so many thoughts going through my mind when I finished learning that solo,” Snyder said.  “I came up with this twisted idea… it’s pain.”Oct. 23 marks the day that Snyder participated in a nation-wide MTV dance competition designed to promote the movie Burlesque.  She auditioned at Westland Mall, and became the top dancer across the state of Michigan.  “I didn’t think it was a big deal,” Snyder said, “but when I got there, there were all of these big names in the dance world.  It was really scary.”Snyder did not choreograph her audition dance.  She just showed up at the competition, felt the music, and won.  Because she won for the state of Michigan, the video of her audition was broadcasted nationally on television and on the internet and people were asked to vote for their favorite dancer.Snyder, even though she was the youngest competitor, came in third place nationally racking up votes from all across the United States.  She won $300 and won tickets to the premiere of the movie Burlesque which debuted at the Palladium Theatre.  Seats were reserved in her name.The competition was not without its controversies as well.  Snyder revealed that the two people ahead of her in the final results are rumored to belong to a dance company, which was against contest rules, and to have cheated in the voting process.  Still, Snyder is “so happy” with her standing at third place in the nation.This burlesque dance-off was far from the only time Snyder’s feet have hit a big stage.  She is a Pulse Protégé Dancer which means that she has been noticed at multiple national dance showcases.  She is allowed to work with Pulse, a national dance company, dancers at any of their national conventions.  Whenever she wants.Snyder has been to Las Vegas, Orlando, Chicago, Dallas, and Toronto, among other places, as a professional dancer.The more she dances at national conventions, the more people she meets, and the more her name gets out into the dance world.  So far, she has met people like good friend Matt Dorame from So You Think You Can Dance, the judges from So You Think You Can Dance, Broadway dancers and choreographers like Tyce Diorio and Joey Dowling, and many of the choreographers from the Step Up movies.Dorame visited Michigan on Monday, Jan. 3, to help Snyder choreograph a solo.  Snyder spent the entire day at the studio with him.Her name is not the only evidence of her talent that travels out into the dance world at conventions.  Her choreography is noticed  and shared with not only her friends at her studio but also by the professionals at the conventions.“People notice my choreography and they like it,” Snyder said.  “I don’t think it’s that good, but maybe it is to someone else.”Snyder records her choreography and then posts it to YouTube her customers can access it.  So, as a student by day, time seems to be the problem for this professional dancer.  Snyder says that she spends at least five hours at Suzette’s, her studio, on weekdays, and 10-15 hours on weekend days, if she’s not travelling that is. She is also the lead in Stoney’s winter play…Juggling school, play rehearsals, and dance proves to be a struggle.  “I don’t have time to eat and I don’t have time to sleep,” Snyder said laughing at herself.  But it’s worth it to this dancer.  It’s all worth it.“I don’t dance because I love it or because it’s a passion,” Snyder said with confidence, “It is my life.”  She feels incredibly lucky to have found what she is supposed to be doing, and to be given the chance to do it.  After high school, she plans to go to college online, because “dance has a short life and I’m not willing to stop my life for college.”