	Alice was sitting “idly” by the pond with her sister at this story’s onset.  Some adults may also argue that jumping willingly into a rabbit’s hole for curiosity’s sake is considered nothing but “mischievous.”  I disagree, and I think Lewis Carroll just might too.	In chapter two of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, Carroll parodies Isaac Watt’s poem “Against Idleness and Mischief,” so I’d like to look at both Carroll’s parody and the original in order to try to draw some conclusions, or possibilities, rather, about Carroll’s beliefs on education, on the value of experience and even on curiosity.	Now, as Watts’s title itself gives away, Watts believes that “Satan finds some mischief” for children who do not keep busy “In Books, or work, or healthful Play.”  But in the place of Watts’s dutiful “little busy Bee,” Carroll writes about “the little crocodile.”  Now, while bees are “busy,” crocodiles seem to sit and bath until it’s time to eat.  But speaking of eating, Carroll’s poem focuses on how a crocodile finds food just as a bee makes food.  In the natural world, crocodiles can’t make their own food but rather they must catch it.  Maybe Carroll is suggesting that finding the knowledge that curiosity lures a child to is just as good a way to learn as making a child study poems and timetables.  Watts uses the Bee as a natural example of how to be dutiful and worker-like for children, but Carroll points out that other natural examples exist, too (though, I don’t know that Carroll was imploring children to be the crocodile.  I think she was, however, prodding their curiosity with this new natural metaphor.)	One of the effects of this inversion of ideas is Carroll’s implied suggestion that there’s something to be said for a child’s happiness and enjoyment of life outside of the sphere or work and education, I think.  While Watts’s Bee “skillfully” works, Carroll’s crocodile “cheerfully” smiles.  This implication seems especially true in the context of Alice’s story.   Carroll’s story delves into the mind of the child, the imagination of the child, the (excuse the cliché!) out-of-the-box thinking of a child and here juxtaposes it to the Lockian idea of shaping the child by making her recite poetry, learn her times tables, and learn her geography.  By doing this, Carroll points out that children can learn in their own more magical, more natural, more Rousseauian ways, too, without having to fret about knowledge as Alice does in this passage.   