In order to approach education correctly, according to Locke's guidelines, understanding what constitutes "work" versus what constitutes "play" is necessary.  In this passage, Locke defines said terms for us.“Work” he describes as something children are “called to do” that they are “teased and chid about” while “play” he describes as something done freely or at a child’s “liberty.”  “Work,” in the child’s eyes, thus takes on a negative connotation while play is left to its positive one.  I therefore gather that, according to Locke, “work” and “play” have very little to do with the actual play and work things, an idea I am having a hard time dealing with.  He says that if children were made to do “dancing and scotchhoppers” in the way they are often made to do chores or “work,” the enjoyment would drain and “play” would become “work.”  So, too, can “work” be made “play.”  This is an easy idea enough, and I agree with Locke in that teachers must be smart in their teaching, must refrain from making “work” seem like a job to fulfill but rather like an opportunity to learn and be excited.  But there’s something about the way Locke presents his information that confuses me, even makes me a little scared.If “work” and “play” depend entirely on the “examples of others whom [children] esteem and think above themselves,” does that not imply that I, a former child, only enjoy my “play” things, my activities I do “freely,” because someone at one time not only allowed me that freedom but showed me to love those things by example?  Do I truly only enjoy painting or writing or singing because I was allowed to “freely” do them at one point in my life? It is possible that I am taking Locke’s ideas to an extreme, I suppose, but to me his writing elicits a sort of Big Brother-type mood.  If I, as a child, am “allowed” to freely do what I want, am I actually free?  What’s more, Locke implies that a child only wants to do what he wants to do because that’s what others taught him to want.  What I understand him to be saying is that teachers should trick students into liking work and thinking it play.  And then I find myself wondering if someone did not already do that to me, some teacher in my past.  Are my ideas of “work” and “play” already tampered with?  Was painting and writing and singing work to someone before me who taught me to think them play so as to better me somehow? Are these confused ideas about “work” and “play” not some huge continuum, then, if my “play” and my “work” are configured by others? Therefore, I am starting to think that Locke’s ideas are not as much about “education” as they are about brainwashing and clever ways of crafting clones of the educator.  If the educator tampers with “work” and “play” in this manner, Locke says that children will go about doing the educator’s definition of “work” as if it was “their dearly beloved freedom.”  This word choice enforces my belief that Lock is, in fact, mocking a child’s freedom!  A crazed but clever tyrant could use this information just as easily against his people, I think, to make them believe the work he makes them do is play.  Maybe I’ve looked at this excerpt a bit too negatively, but I couldn’t help but see a sort of extended comparison accidentally (or perhaps purposefully) being drawn between education, government, and brainwashing as I read Locke’s writing.  In this passage, Locke implies that educators must manipulate a child’s “natural freedom.” I would argue that a teacher should, instead, work with a child’s natural freedom and whims.  Allow a child’s definition of work to be work and play to be play.  Then, let him learn from both equally as his natural instincts see fit.  