The first was a girl, the second a boy.  The first was born on January 25, the second on February 2.  It was 1882.  Society meant nothing to this girl and this boy.  They were infants.  How could they have known that it would kill them in the end, that it would consume them?  They didn’t.  They didn’t know, and yet each developed a grotesque relationship with society, their impending killer. This girl was author Virginia Woolf, this boy author James Joyce, and their relationship stemmed from modernism, the literary movement to which they belong. Modernism is based on the minds, the nerves, and the ways of people.  It is an “ethnic community of thought,” a division between “psychological time and clock time,” and, most importantly, “a result of the urban environment” (Everdell 4-9).  So, in a sense, as authors they were specialists in the way of interpreting the societies around them and the “results” they cause.	At the time of their births, the circumstances of these authors could not have been more different.  For starters, one was a girl born in London, England to parents rooted in the agnostic tradition (Nicolson 8). To continue, the other was a boy born in Dublin, Ireland to parents rooted in the Catholic tradition (Anderson 6). But regardless of their different origins, their societies proceeded to destroy the world around them.  Depression and then mental illness consumed the lives of both Woolf and Joyce (Nicolson 50; Anderson 64).   But because they were modernist writers, because their material came from the mind and society’s affect on it, readers of their stories, like Woolf’s novel Mrs. Dalloway and Joyce’s short story “The Dead,” can watch as their minds crumble under a common societal weight. Thus, society’s universal ability to deplete the human psyche is exposed by its parallel affects on the lives of Joyce and Woolf in spite of their divergent backgrounds and social circumstances.	To begin, the common practices of their societies, while different, led to comparable afflictions on the young authors’ psyches. For example, when Woolf was a child, her society’s dejection of the mentally impaired guided her father to send her “deranged” half sister to live in a mental ward where she eventually died (Nicolson 2).  At the same time, Joyce’s Catholic society guided his family’s growth to continue “increasing in size as fast as it declined” in fortune.  As a result, one of his baby siblings died and others were stillborn (Anderson 8).  In addition, Woolf grew up with half brothers who made it habit to satisfy their curiosities by sexually abusing her.  One time, one brother “lifted her onto a table and, out of curiosity, put his hand under her skirt...” (Nicolson 11). Comparably, Joyce and his brother were once sexually assaulted by an old man while walking the streets of Dublin.  Apparently, the old man “went off into the field and did something that frightened the boys,” and this, unfortunately, was just a preview for Joyce of the events to come upon entering his Catholic preparatory school (Anderson 6).   Therefore, the grievances caused by these authors’ differing societies were showing similar notions of the impending mental destruction right from the very beginning.	To go in another direction, one that affected the authors after childhood, society’s separate gender-related burdens assisted the depletion of both the male Joyce’s and the female Woolf’s psyche.  As mentioned by critic Laura Marcus in the article “Woolf’s Feminism and Feminism’s Woolf,” due to the universal culture at the time of Joyce’s and Woolf’s lives, some women, including Woolf herself, believed in “social feminism” or “the belief that women’s values and skills, whether innate or culturally constructed, are excluded in male-dominated societies.”  In an attempt to offset this curve in society, the article says that women like Woolf placed an “emphasis on education and experience as the necessary conditions for women’s cultural and intellectual life” (Marcus 212-213).  Woolf spent her younger life craving this, craving an education, but it was denied her by the tradition-oriented, male-dominated society.  But, while male, Joyce too was a victim of the tradition-oriented, male-dominated society.  He was sent to Clongowes Wood College, a Catholic preparatory school in Ireland.  After returning from school, Joyce is recorded as having said, “you have the cursed, jesuit stain in you, only it’s injected the wrong way,” of his experiences at school.  With disgust in his mind, he later left this church as it was oriented in a male-dominated tradition with which he disagreed (Anderson 13-14).  Thus, both authors were left plagued by a society grooved in a tradition.	Similarly, society’s dysfunctional image of the way a relationship between a man and a woman is supposed to work, divulged by both authors’ works and parallel life events, can be credited with the continued depletion of both authors’ psyches.  Referencing these authors’ direct words is comparable to investigating the scene of a crime as feelings surface about living their own lives within a societal structure.  To start with Joyce, in “The Dead” Gabriel Conroy, the tradition-guided young man of the story, speaks of being “...proud of her [his wife’s] grace and wifely carriage” (216).  Upon watching his wife lost in her emotion, daydreaming almost, Gabriel “longed to be master of her strange mood” (218).  In both of these examples, Joyce depicts Gabriel as yearning to play the part of “master” to a “wifely” woman.  However, after introducing this tradition-oriented side of his main character, Joyce reveals that Gretta, Gabriel’s wife, was remembering Michael Furey, a boy who suffered from a terminal illness, from her past.  In his sickness, this boy journeyed out to show Gretta that he loved her, to show her his passion for her.  Then he died (221).  Upon learning this, Gabriel feels diminished by the confinements of tradition.  He realizes that finding that passion, the passion Michael Furey had mastered, is what living is really about and that tradition is more a reflection of “the dead” than the living. The fact that someone who was already dead had felt more passion than he ever would in his tradition-led life made him feel more dead than alive (222).	Woolf’s novel Mrs. Dalloway makes similar comments on a tradition-led life.  At the onset of the novel, Clarissa Dalloway speculates about her life and the relationships that have played a part in it.  Of marriage she says “a little independence there must be...” and then juxtaposes this comment with a description of Peter, a man who once loved her and her him, but whom she never married.  She implies that she never married him because “with Peter everything had to be shared...” (7-8).  However, with her current husband, Richard, nothing is seemingly shared.  Here, like the one Joyce describes in “The Dead,” a marriage is again void of passion.  Later on in the novel, Clarissa then speculates about her relationship with Sally, a friend and lover from the past.  She says, “The stanger thing, on looking back, was the purity, the integrity, of her feeling for Sally.  It was not like one’s feeling for a man” (34).  By comparing Clarissa’s feelings on the two different relationships, it can be reasoned that the problem Clarissa has is mixing love and marriage, a societal tradition, with a man.  Her marriage is assumably void of love with Richard, therefore it works, but is not perfect.  It is only the relationship with a woman, void of societal demands, that she can define as “pure” and with “integrity.”	As both of these societal problem-filled stories parallel each respective author’s life, society can be credited as having created yet another casualty to add to the pile within the authors’ psyches: their ability to love freely.  To again start with Joyce, Michael Barnacle was the real name of Michael Furey from “The Dead.”  Gretta’s real name was Nora, Joyce’s wife.  According to a sister of Nora’s, Joyce only originally attracted Nora because he looked like this Michael Barnacle.  Furthermore, Nora became Joyce’s wife only because of a marriage that occurred twenty-one years into their relationship in order to “avoid legal problems” (Ellman 18).  He thus lived a passionless love life during which he fell into the tradition he spoke so ardently against. Correspondingly, Leonard was the real name of Richard from Mrs. Dalloway.  Sally’s real name was Vita, a woman with whom Woolf had a love affair.  “It took two years for their friendship to develop into intimacy, and three for inimacy to be acknowledged on both sides as love” wrote Vita’s son Nigel Nicolson, Woolf’s biographer.  Woolf later is recorded as having admitted that “in the end she was attracted more to women than to men because with women ‘Friendship is never untinged with amorosity’” (Nicolson 89).  She, too, thus lived a life in which she fell into society’s tradition rather than living an everyday life the way she felt most inclined to.  Society guided both of these authors to make decisions that inferably detracted from their happiness.  Thus, society killed their ability to love freely and detracted happiness from their psyches.	Yet, stinting passion was only one of the ways society depleted the authors’ psyches, as revealed in their works of literature.  With Woolf as one of the specific authors mentioned, modernist specialist William R. Everdell writes that modernist authors have been noted to “write about the world they had left behind” (285).  In a way, this is exactly what Joyce does in “The Dead” as the message he gets across is that “we can be at the same time in death as well as in life.”  This message is taken from his story by the way he notates the repetition of the Irish tradition.  He gives the same speech every year, to the same people, after carving the same goose.  In this way, Joyce is saying that tradition prevents people from experiencing new things, from living life.  “The Dead” he references in the title are actually the living people at the party who never veer from tradition (Ellman 19).  In a different yet coordinating fashion, a critic of Woolf, Susan Dick, notes that “throughout Mrs. Dalloway the focus continually shifts from the external world to the minds of the characters perceiving it” (Whitworth 52).  Especially when taking into account the way Woolf does this with her character Septimus, a man in mental demise thanks to the war-stricken society he came from, it can further be seen that boundaries between the living and the dead do not truly exist.  Septimus was lost within his mind and could not comprehend the same world that the rest of society could.  Therefore, he did not exist in the “real world” anymore.  Society killed his ability to live in it.  As modernists write about “the world they left behind,” both of these intermixings of the “dead” and the “alive” reveal a different way that society affected the respective author’s psyche and began to tear down the walls of his or her mind.	And finally, in two final moves, society conquered first Joyce and then Woolf, depleting their human psyches in their entirety.  For Joyce, society’s final move came when it plagued his daughter, Lucia, with a mental illness.  This mental illness began with Joyce’s marriage to Nora and was heightened when the marriage “gave Nora a new edge in her natural competition with Lucia for Joyce’s affections...” (Anderson 120).  His daughter’s mental illness paired with his fatherly nature brought upon his death.  According to Joyce’s bibliography, “they were both going to the bottom of a river, but Lucia was falling and Joyce was diving” in after her (Anderson 123).  Joyce died “old and sick” on January 13, 1941 (Anderson 126).  As for Woolf, society’s final move is less certain. She seemingly acted fairly normal, up until the day she died that is.  However, her novel Mrs. Dalloway offers a clue.  Toward the end of her book Woolf writes the following of Clarissa’s pondering on the death of Septimus: “She felt somehow very like him—the young man who killed himself.  She had felt glad that he had done it; thrown it away” (186).  According to literary critic Morris Beja, “In her own life, Joyce played the role of alter-ego that Septimus Smith had played for Clarissa Dalloway” (Beja 41).  To expand, Woolf is recorded, in her essay “Modern Novels,” to have characterized one of Joyce’s stories as having failed “because of the comparative poverty of the writer’s mind.”  So, if it is true that Woolf played the role of Septimus within Virginia’s life, it is possible that she “felt glad” that Joyce had escaped this life.  Though not certain, is it not possible that she made a connection between her life and Joyce’s and realized that her mind, too, was in “poverty?”  Joyce made up part of her modernist society of thought, therefore it is possible that his death was society’s final move in depleting Woolf’s human psyche, her mind.  If so, then it worked, because Woolf killed herself on March 28, 1941, a mere two-and-a-half months after Joyce’s death (Nicolson 190).   	Without jurisdiction from the differing backgrounds and social circumstances of Woolf and Joyce, society’s universal ability to deplete the human psyche is demonstrated in the parallel ways in which it depleted their spirits over a lifetime.  The scary part?  Both Woolf and Joyce acknowledged society to be a danger to one’s sanity... and still it consumed them.  In his essay “The Day of the Rabblement,” Joyce writes that “If an artist courts the favour of the multitude he cannot escape the contagion of its fetichism and deliberate self-deception and if he joins in a popular movement he does so at his own risk.”  He wrote this, and yet his mind contracted society’s contagious “fetchism,” or masking of one’s self.  Similarly, literary critic Michael Whitworth said of Woolf that “even as her novels register the psychological stresses of urban life, they celebrate its fertile possibilities.”  Her work emanated this concept and yet it’s hard to imagine that those “fertile possibilities” were still present in her mind as she threw herself into a river.  Modernism claims that the individual is “complimentary to the society in which he lives, rather as a soloist in a concerto” (Everdell 2).  How grotesquely beautiful that image is.  How grotesquely beautiful these authors’ lives were and literary works are.  They parallel each other, and yet somehow interweave. The first was a man, the second a woman. The first died on January 13, the second on March 28.  It was 1941.  Society meant everything to this man and this woman.  It killed them.  And yet this man and this woman are “at the same time in death as well in life,” because they left behind pieces of themselves, their stories, so that present-day individuals in society might not make the same mistakes as they, might delve into modernism just a little bit deeper.