The Rochester Community School Board ruled to privatize their transportation and sanitation employees in order to pump out some water from a sinking budget that is $10.7 million in debt, on April 16.  Next year transportation workers from Durham School Services and custodians from GCA Education Services will take the places of Rochester Community School employees, according to Rochester Community Schools Superintendent Frederick Clarke.	“I try not to think about it right now, but it’s definitely real,” custodian Derek Elkins said of the privatization.	While every member of the custodial and transportation staffs will have an opportunity to interview for the new companies, many do not for see themselves returning to Stoney Creek.	“You just can’t live on it [the GCA Education Services compensation,]” Elkins said. “Most of us have families and, you know, we just have to move on.”	For Elkins, a step toward moving on leads him to a summer of figuring out what other job opportunities, possibly in the computer networking field, he can take advantage of in the future.  For the very near future, however, he, his wife, and his four kids will live on unemployment.	On the transportation side of the privatization spectrum, the future of bus driver Ann Tague, route 21, and her two kids is up in the air.  	“They’re not making it easy for us, that’s for sure,” Tague said with a catch in her voice. “I don’t feel good about it at all.  It’s been very painful.”	Having already interviewed and tested for a spot on the Durham School Services staff, all there is left for Tague to do is wait for either a letter or a phone call to deliver the news which, according to Tague, is “another stressful factor ‘cause none of [the custodians] know what’s going on.” 	What all custodians and transportation employees do know, however, is that their lives are about to change.  Still, they wonder whether such a change in their lives could have been avoided.	“I feel that there could have been other ways, like even if the teachers just took a five percent cut, just five percent, then none of this would have taken place,” Tague said, “but they won’t budge at all.”	But they all “gotta ride the wave,” according to Tague.	“We just gotta remember,” Tague said, “our kids are keeping us going.”

According to the district budget, the district’s weather radar, this storm has no plans of subsiding.  However, many leaders in the district have forecasts, some hopeful and some fearful, for the future.	The most immediate forecast comes from a fearful vice principal John Kelley.  	“My fear is that every time you cut something, it’s hard to get it back,” Kelley said. “And ever time we make a cut, it’ll affect someone, whether it’s a program or a person, or both.”	Another looming forecast comes from Clarke.  The focus of the district, according to Clarke, will continue to be on keeping cuts as far away from the classroom as possible.  	However, the district’s resources can only stop the storm from penetrating the the schools for as long as they last.  And with the budget in the condition that it is, Clarke knows that some of the extra, theoretically non-essential, resources may be in the danger zone.	“That’s what I’m fearing,” Clarke said, “that the next wave of cuts, or the next wave after that, is going to start hitting on some of those things that are going to have that indirect effect on instruction but a direct effect on students.”	While the surge will go on, Clarke believes that “communities like Rochester will be able to weather the storm.”  	The very impoverished districts, Clarke fears, will not be as lucky.	“And I worry. I worry about the entire state,” Clarke said. “I worry about... what types of student’s we’re going to be producing down the road, five, six, seven, eight years from now.  It’s going to be a challenge.”	Goralski, too, fears for the future of public education. 	“I just think public schools are what makes America great,” Goralski said. “My fear is that there are higher powers that would like to put public schools out of business.”	And yet, amongst all this rain, administrators also forecast a hope of improvement.	Goralski hopes to be able to instate a more flexible schedule, one that will give kids more personal opportunity and “that might end up costing a little less... that might kill two birds with one stone.”	Kelley, too, has that hope, elaborating that “some kids would be more successful if they had a little bit more flexibility, like a hybrid [class] or an online class.”Conclusion	Though some custodians and transportation workers will return, the economic storm will soon remove him from the school.  And yet he still offers up smiles from behind his zamboni after school hours.  He’s “the Duke.”  He’s Derek Elkins.  And he, along with all the other custodians and transportation workers leaving the school, will be missed.	“I think we’ll definitely miss them,” freshman Tara Lechnar said. “They’ve always been so helpful.”