	Frank McCourt lived a childhood instilled with fear of the Catholic Church, a childhood whittled by the teachings of the Catholic Church…the teachings of the Catholic Church as interpreted by a child, that is.  Children are honest.  Retaining his childhood honesty, McCourt writes his memoir as if he somehow preserved his younger mind, voice, and spirit.  McCourt writes his memoir as if his youthful and ingenious honesty never dwindled, as exemplified in the quote above.  That honesty never dwindled as it fought its withstanding battle against the radical religious surroundings.  It continued to fight its battle, because it longed for the truth the church never gave him.In a video taken of Frank McCourt giving what resembled a homily at the Hudson Union Society in New York City, McCourt said this of the Catholic Church: “They get you practically before you leave the womb” (hudsonunionsociety).  To say the least, the Catholic Church immersed him in its teachings as a child.  It immersed him just as the Lough Neagh, the largest lake in Ireland, immerses a person drowning, gasping water where there should be air.  Truth is the air that the Catholic Church of his childhood stole from the young Frank McCourt.  Upon his disinterment from the Church as an adult, free to think on his own, McCourt was able to breathe, to gain new perspective as reflected by the passage in chapter VII pages 171-173 of Angela’s Ashes, a memoir of his childhood. This passage begins with the young Frank McCourt and a few of his Catholic classmates, including Mickey Spellacy, praying for a timely death for Mickey’s sister Brenda.  The Catholic classmates prayed for her timely death so that Mickey would miss school, and if Brenda died and Mickey missed school, he would allow the boys to live it up at the wake.  The passage then transitions to a lighter focus on Protestant girls and the way they appeared to the young, Catholic Frank McCourt.  By focusing on his suffering childhood thought process in juxtaposed circumstances relating to religion within these scenes, McCourt defines the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church on which he rested his faith as a child.	The most prominent insufficiency of the Catholic Church is defined by McCourt’s supply of ambiguous connotations and lack of definite denotations of words relating to the religion that guided his thought process and his faith.  This insufficiency is the Catholic Church’s plethora of un-answered questions.  How many times throughout the book does McCourt describe a scene in which a child’s question about religion remains unanswered?  Many.  For example, there’s the time when Frank’s father addressed a priest passing by as “father.” Frank inquired as to why, to which his mother responded with “Don’t ask him any questions” (48). This principle is represented in the chapter VII passage by the words McCourt uses.  The most direct example exists in the following sentences:  “Protestant girl, come with me to the True Church.  You’ll be saved and you won’t have the doom” (172).  This sentence exudes vague diction.  What is the definition of “True,” the capitalized adjective modifying “Church?”  What does it mean to be “saved” or to “have the doom?”  In the paragraph containing this sentence, the word “doom” is repeated five times.  The subsequent paragraph adds yet another.  It is seen written as “the doom,” “doom,” and “doomed.” The problem arises in the fact that throughout the book a clear definition of the word “doom” as related to the Church is never supplied while the word is used almost as often is the word “the” or “is.” The book lacks a clear description of how one becomes “doomed,” or what religious repercussions are associated with “the doom.”  The only obvious aspect of the word is its negative connotation.  Frankly, even a young Catholic child can associate “doom” with ruin and hell, but that leaves him with only a feeling, a connotation.  Hell.  That’s all that’s left to a child’s mind to mull over.  McCourt’s pairing of a child and seemingly undefined, negative words deciphers the insufficiency of the Church.  McCourt’s word choice asks its audience what a child can do with a word, a feeling, and an unanswered question, but remain with a mind lacking a state of grace. If diction does not exemplify the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church that tainted McCourt’s childhood thought process enough, then syntax by means of punctuation should finish the job by pointing out the young Frank’s misguided faith.  Building upon the concept of unanswered questions, the way McCourt scribes his dialogue continues his emphasis on vagueness. Dialogue in McCourt’s memoir does not involve quotation marks and therefore has no definite beginning or ending.  Uncertainty is the theme thus far.  To exemplify this idea, McCourt writes, “…they’re doomed.  That’s what the priests tell us.  Outside the Catholic Church there is no salvation.  Outside the Catholic Church there is nothing but doom” (172).  It can be interpreted that “what the priests tell us” is that “they’re doomed” and that the last two sentences are the young Frank’s thoughts.  However, it can also be interpreted that the last two sentences are the priests’ words inflicted upon the young Frank’s memory.  The lack of quotation marks makes it impossible to know which version is true. This parallels a concept commonly touched upon in the Catholic Church.  When taken out of the purely religious context, the Bible holds some of the same uncertainty.  Each book of the Bible was supposedly written by a different person, but time erased any proof of author long ago. Putting the analysis back into religious context, the ambiguity then focuses on the idea that some words may be God’s words and some may be the human author’s words.  Again, for a child with unanswered questions, these concepts would be hard to understand.  Another instance of syntax exemplifying the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church exists in the comparison of the beginning and end of this passage.  The excessive use of the conjunction “and” at the beginning of the passage contrasts with the simple sentence structure leaning toward asyndeton at the end of the passage.  To understand the relationship between the two different ends of the passage, context must be reinforced and understood.  The first part of the passage describes Catholic boys attempting to apply religion to their advantage by strategizing prayer into their selfish schemes revolving around the death of a dying girl… to no avail, for the young Frank at least.  Relatively, the second part of the passage describes the young and confused and anxious and Catholic Frank observing the young, blithe, Protestant girls.  The first part of the passage contains multiple sentences written in this way: “Well, if Brenda hangs on and I get me week off ye can come to the wake and have ham and cheese and cake and sherry and lemonade and everything and ye can listen to the songs and stories all night” (171). The unremitting use of the conjunction “and” in addition to the lack of commas speeds up the sentence to place emphasis on the cumulative content in the sentence to show how great a treat it would be to attend a wake. In contrast, the second part of the passage is considerably shorter and contains sentences written in this way: “I feel sorry for them, especially the girls, who are so lovely, they have such beautiful white teeth” (172). The biggest syntactical difference in this part of the passage as compared to the beginning part of the passage is the sudden use of commas and the disappearance of the conjunction “and” to speed the passage up. It can be interpreted that this more respectable, more graceful syntactical choice of McCourt’s was chosen to show that the Protestant girls live much more respectably and gracefully than do the Catholic boys.  To give this interpretation further merit, McCourt writes with this graceful syntax on many other occasions on which he writes longingly of Protestants and their lovely, lucid lifestyles.  For example, later on in the book, McCourt says, “If the weather is fine people are playing croquet, the Protestant game, or strolling around, talking and laughing, all decked out…” (315). This same graceful syntax, with legato ideas separated by commas, is used.  Thus, the syntactical differences at the beginning of the original passage on page 172 as compared with the syntax at the end of the passage reveal obvious differences between the groups of children.  This highlights another possible insufficiency of the Catholic Church.  The Catholic boys are described with syntax that shows them as excited at the possibility of a young girl’s death.  The Catholic boys are described with syntax that shows them as graceless, lacking propriety and respectability, while the Protestant girls are described with syntax that shows them as graceful, exuding propriety and elegance. It can be interpreted that McCourt wanted to exemplify, by the juxtaposition of drastically different syntax, that the Catholic Church raises less respectable children than does the Protestant Church.  By looking a bit deeper into McCourt’s sentences, it can be interpreted that McCourt’s syntax further implies “grace-full” and “grace-less.”  He could be depicting that the religious “state of grace” exists with the graceful Protestants while the Catholics strive for a poorly defined “state of grace” leaving them, again, questioning and graceless.  Here, again, an insufficiency of the Catholic Church is unveiled.Building upon this same idea of juxtaposing aspects of the Catholic and Protestant religions, as developed by his childhood thought process, McCourt uses emotional appeal to define further insufficiencies of the Catholic Church which took advantage of the faith he put in it.  The only place in this passage where emotional appeal is used is at the end of the passage—the Protestants’ part of the passage.  McCourt scratches onomatopoeia into his sentences when he says the following of the Protestant girls: “Croquet is a Protestant game.  They hit the ball with the mallet, pock and pock again, and laugh” (173).  The word “pock” is used figuratively to create the noise a croquet mallet makes when it hits the ball. Furthermore, McCourt also describes the Protestant girls as having “…beautiful white teeth” (172). White is the universal color of innocence (not to mention, to coat-tail on the previous argument, the universal-in-Limerick color of expensive dental care).  Thus, it can be interpreted that white modifies the Protestant girls to signify their innocence (and wealth).  Onomatopoeia and imagery, along with emotional appeal in general, are used to brighten up a scene, to fill it with fun, sensory details.  McCourt includes these details only when modifying Protestant games, because that type of fun is associated with “doom” in the Catholic Church.  Frank and the other children were taught that having fun, to a certain extent, was not allowed.  By his use of figurative language in secluded parts of the passage, McCourt shows his disapproval of this aspect of the Catholic Church as how is playing croquet logically related to sin?  What would Jesus do?  Well, in McCourt’s opinion, he would play croquet.  In this passage McCourt figuratively asks why children could possibly be deprived of innocent fun.Another emotional appeal used by McCourt to illustrate insufficiencies in the Catholic Church is his use of a poem, a cadence if you will.  The cadence reads: “Proddy Woddy ring the bell, / Not for heaven but for hell” (172). “Proddy Woddy” is most likely a sardonic nickname Catholics have been known to call Protestants.  Although the internet lacks an explicit definition of “Proddy Woddy,” as is the case for most nicknames, the context of the nickname’s use in multiple examples verifies it as a negative nickname for Protestants.  One example, a comment on the Irish Central publication’s article “Tony Blair reveals how British Catholic ambassadors to the Vatican were banned for centuries,” says, “Typical of proddy-woddy Britain to exclude Catholics for so long so as to deny its people of the Truth…” (jacersisityourself).  As England is a Protestant-heavy country, as defined profusely by McCourt’s memoir, the term can definitely be utilized as a nickname for Protestants.  As this is the case, the effect of this poem is immensely supportive of McCourt’s ideas of the Catholic Church’s insufficiencies.  Firstly, the Catholics are the ones in this poem ridiculing the Protestants by name-calling.  Name-calling is the universal sign of immaturity, most often seen on elementary school playgrounds… and McCourt associates the Catholics with name-calling.  What’s more, he juxtaposes the poem with the situation above—the one that describes the Catholic boys strategizing prayer into their selfish schemes dependent upon the death of a young girl.  To seal the deal, the poem is further juxtaposed to the description of the proddy-woddy girls as innocent, graceful, and respectable.  Therefore, the placement of this cadence is ironic on top of everything else.  It implies that the Protestants are not the people guilty of “ring[ing] the bell, / Not for heaven but for hell” but that the Catholics are the guilty ones.  McCourt slaps his reader in the face with this blatant announcement of an insufficiency in the Catholic Church.Through his True (meaning honest) writings, from his childhood perspective, about his religion within this passage, insufficiencies of the Catholic Church are captured and destroyed.  His diction, his syntax, his emotional appeal, his content, his every aspect of his memoir pairs the face-value, hesitant, childhood thought process with the deeper, grown-up certainty, his grown-up truth.  No longer would the insufficiencies of the Catholic Church damper his thought process.  No longer would the Church keep him trapped in Ireland or drown him in Lough Neagh.  Later in life, McCourt said that he realized that in his lifetime he wanted to and was meant to deal with ideas and with kids.  He wanted to deal with kids “because they, they will tell the truth…Eventually what they want is the truth…” (jfc999).  McCourt went on to say, “Maybe this is what I was searching for myself” (jfc999).  Throughout his childhood, the Catholic Church inflicted its uncertainty upon the young Frank McCourt.  But while he was drowning and his life was passing before his eyes, he learned how to swim and gasped for air, gasped for breath, gasped for truth… and found it. 