What happened to simple?  Everything is now so big, so dramatic, so elaborate. Especially when it comes to our love lives.	See, there are no more simple love stories.  No more boy sees girl, girl sees boy, boy and girl fall in love.  Nope.  Not here anyway.  But in this perfect scenario, how would said boy ask said girl to prom?  Well, his cheeks would probably flush, his dimples would surface, and he would say, “Will you go to prom with me?”  In return, her cheeks would probably flush, her voice would quiver, and she would say, “Yes.”	So maybe our big, dramatic, elaborate prom proposals come from a need to compensate for this lack of perfection, but the most important thing to remember is that “asking someone to prom” is just a question.  That is it.  Prom proposals, like any kind of proposal, are best if kept simple, kept genuine.	We do everything on a larger, more public scale now-a-days, what with Facebook and Twitter being our centers of gravity, so it makes sense that prom proposals have become a public event.  And sometimes that works.  Sometimes.	Oftentimes, however, putting on a fancy show questions the integrity of the question being asked.	“Sometimes people are just trying to do it for attention,” junior Michelle LoPicolo said of flamboyant prom proposals.  	And frankly, that is the exact reaction a flamboyant proposal generates.  Let us think back to that boy sees girl, girl sees boy, boy asks girl to prom scenario.  The situation’s undisguised integrity is arguably the cutest part, is it not?  And that aspect to a proposal goes undiscovered when a proposal is made just as much for the audience as for the person being asked.	“If the person doesn’t like to be the center of attention, don’t make it a big deal,” junior Tricia Goble said of asking someone to prom.	Unless the person being asked craves the public eye, a private proposal is probably preferable.	Not only does such a proposal question the asker’s motive, but a fancy, public proposal oftentimes leads to further, and generally negative, public response and repercussion.	“It’s good if they’re sure the person being asked is going to say yes,” junior Angela Kim said of public prom proposals.	“Otherwise it’s super awkward,” junior Nicollette Disantis said countering her friend’s statement with a nod and a smile.	For example, throughout Stoney’s chronicle of prom proposals, several make their way down the generations, stained in the school’s memory forever.  A guess to which leave the stains?  Yep, the rejections!  	One year, a boy asked a girl over the loud speaker.  Everyone awed and awed some more... until the poor boy got rejected.  	Now, the courage of such a prom proposal does not go unnoticed.  Still, such a heartache could have been made easier if echoes of its occurrence were not as loud through the hallways as the very PA announcement that began them.	In addition, those echoes of rejection take their toll on more than just the voice that began them.  Frankly, others wanting to pop the question would have to summon courage louder than the resonating rejection.  And how hard is that?  	The result just ends up being fewer people with a date to prom.	In the public eye, the act of asking someone to prom becomes a big social game in which every senior and underclassman asked is a player.  	But where did the purity of a simple question go in this game?  What is wrong with just asking?  Well, nothing. 	According to famous poet Walt Whitman, “Simplicity is the glory of expression.”	Complications disappear when that is remembered.  If you found someone you want to ask to prom, go make her want you by putting yourself out there and asking without hiding behind the big prom proposals society seems to call for.  Because it is not society that will be waiting for you to ask.  It is the girls.  Simplicity wins in the end.  Always.