In translating “The Story of the Fisherman (and the Demon),” both Edward Lane and Husain Haddawy attempt to balance both a faithfulness to the original and an understanding of the audience.  I would argue, however, that comparatively Haddawy places the greater value on staying faithful to the original while Lane places the greater value on appealing to the audience.  For this reason, I value Haddawy’s translation more.  To value the essence of the original, to me, is a truer doctrine of translation than to value the likes of the audience.  Nonetheless, at the root of each translation lies the ability to please.  Whether planted primarily as a means of staying faithful to the original or as a means of appealing to the audience, pleasure is both of these translations’ primary effect.  It is these common roots that remind me that both of these translations stem from a common seed:  the very first time someone told this story. Therefore, while each has grown differently, to analyze these translations together, to consider them brother trees, is to reveal a truer essence the “original.”  So let’s start climbing down these roots.	Let’s begin with the underdog as I’ve deemed it.  The Lane translation of “The Story of the Fisherman” was published in London in 1804 as a story within of The Arabian Nights Entertainments, as it was referred to in London.  According to Borges, “Lane lived five studious years in Cairo, ‘almost exclusively among Muslims, speaking and listening to their language, conforming to their customs... ’”  .  He, thus, is capable of claiming an authority of sorts on the way the original story may have functioned in its original environment.  Still, it is not only the five years in Cairo that defines this translator, but rather too his background as the son of “a Hereford perbendary,” a member of the clergy, and a member of British aristocratic society.  Just as someone might artistically shape a tree, Lane shapes his translation with this society in mind.  It is this society that Lane strives to please.  	As for Haddawy, his translation of “The Fisherman and the Demon” was published much more recently, in 1990, in both New York and London as a story within Haddawy’s The Arabian Nights book of stories.  He grew up in Baghdad listening to oral retellings of these stories   .  This personal history combined with Haddawy’s comparative literature studies (as is delineated in his Introduction to his translation) grant Haddawy, too, an authority on the way the original story may have functioned in its original environment, an authority that is arguably stronger than Lane’s.  His translation thus arises from a very academic, researched, modern day setting.  While it does not seek to please, Haddawy’s readers’ “pleasure is vicarious and aesthetic, derived from the escape into an exotic world of with fulfillment and from the underlying act of transformation…”  .  Closer to the seed we seem to be.	Now, in order to understand the way these translations work as pertains to both their audiences and their notions of “the original,” it seems important to acknowledge the following as stated in Haddawy’s Introduction to his translation of The Thousand and One Nights:“[Translators] respond to the text as natives would, by identifying the means by which this effect is produced, and by finding the comparable linguistic and literary means available in their host culture to produce a comparable effect in the intended reader”  .In this way, it is possible to break the act of translating down into two steps.  The first step is to understand the way in which the text functions in its original environment.  The second step is to decide how to translate the text so that it is able to function as equivalently as possible in its host environment.  It is on these bases that I will continue my comparison.	First, let us acknowledge the way in which each of these translators deal with these two steps so that we might better understand the proportions in which each translator applied each step.  Lane, driving by the cultural understanding that living five years in Cairo granted him, “...justifies his interpretation of each problematic word” within his translation in an effort to account for step one (an understanding of the story’s function in the original environment)  .  As for step two (applying the story’s function to the host environment) as Borges terms it, Lane “destined his work for ‘the parlor table,’ a center for placid reading and chaste conversation”  . Furthermore, his translation is then published in the “entertainments” edition of The Arabian Nights.  Thus, it seems fair to deduce that Lane’s time in Cairo led him to interpret the original story’s primary purpose as having been to entertain.  Lane then shapes this story’s intrinsic will to please to the parlor table goers, the members of higher, aristocratic society.	For this reason, perhaps, where Haddawy uses simple, direct language, Lane uses antiquated, more complex language.  For example, Lane’s fisherman says, “Syleymán hath been dead a thousand and eight hundred years; and we are now in the end of time"   .  Lane seems to appeal to this higher society’s perhaps preferred style of language.  It is not out of a closeness to the original that Lane uses words like “hath” or “thy” or “wherefore,” but rather out of an assimilation to a literary tradition already enjoyed by a certain audience.  In the corresponding passage, Haddawy’s fisherman says, “It has been more than one thousand and eight hundred years since the prophet Solomon died, and we are now ages later”   .  In contrast to Lane, Haddawy’s language is more universal.	Thinking universally, Haddawy extends his audience far past a group as small as those to be found seated around an English parlor table.  He translates so that his work will be understandable to as many people of the present, and of the future, as possible.  He states that he has “used colloquialisms and slang terms sparingly because the English equivalents are certain to disappear sooner or later, thus rendering the translation obsolete before its time” (Introduction xxvii).  In this spirit, Haddawy’s concept of staying close to the original, too, seems to exist in a sort of equilibrium between “converting [a text’s] language into the language of the host culture” and equivalently dealing with the “literary idiom and conventions of both cultures”  .  As can be extrapolated from this notion of his, Haddawy’s translation appeals to a diversified audience.  But is it for the sake of the readers that this translation appeals to a diversified audience or is it for the sake of staying close to the original?  Haddawy grew up listening to oral retellings of this tale, remember.  He is dedicated to this story’s oral roots  .  Intrinsically, oral stories have the ability to mold themselves to the people listening, do they not? They have the ability to bend the story so as to let in as large an audience as possible.  Perhaps, then, by keeping his language universal, by allowing in as large an audience as possible, Haddawy accounts for the “original’s” oral beginning.  It is therefore perhaps contestable as to whether Haddawy allows a diversified audience to enter into his text for their own sakes or rather for the sake of staying close to the original.  In his Introduction, Haddawy writes that while he is intent upon maintaining the stories’ function to produce “aesthetic pleasure,” he still holds it more important to stay “as faithful as possible to the original”  .  	To climb further down the roots of these translations, it is worthwhile to compare both Haddawy’s and Lane’s treatment of the moral-driven verse sections of this story.  In his translation, Haddawy maintains a long stanza of mediocre, somewhat nonsensical verse.  In one example, the moral seems to appear in the final two lines of twelve, which read, “Praised be the Lord who blesses and withholds:/This casts the net, but that one eats the fish”  .  Perhaps the moral to be deduced is that the Lord maintains unfairness in life.  Contrarily, Lane shortens the entire verse to a mere two lines which read, “O thou who occupiest thyself in the darkness of night, and in peril!  Spare thy/trouble; for the support of Providence is not obtained by toil!”  Perhaps the moral to be deduced from this version is that “Providence” or fate is not determined by hard work.  So, while the morals deduced, or rather the effects as far as meaning go, remain the similar, Lane takes a liberty that Haddawy does not:  he eliminates an entire sub-story from his translation of the verse, namely the analogy of the fisherman and the fish eater.  Regardless, though, perhaps to somehow add these two moral understandings of this section of the story together is to get closer to the essence of the original.  	A final comparison between these two versions seems in itself a very defining characteristic; Lane’s version incorporates pictures while Haddawy’s version does not.  Again, Lane takes several liberties for the sake of his audience’s enjoyment, liberties Haddawy desires not to take. The incorporation of pictures is perhaps the most striking example of this.  However, again, as Haddawy notes in his Introduction, these stories stem out of an oral tradition.  He says that “...these stories have been spun for centuries in family gatherings, public assemblies, and coffeehouses, in Baghdad, Damascus, or Cairo”  .  This being the case, it is hard to argue that incorporating pictures into a written text equates to staying close to the original.  Pictures, to some, may obstruct the imaginative freedom oral tales allow.  However, it could then follow that perhaps it is also hard to argue that writing the stories down at all equates to staying close to the original.  	It seems, thus, worthwhile to compare a specific passage of these stories, one that uses pictures in the Lane version and an oral remembrance in the Haddawy.  Lane incorporates a drawing of this story’s demon rising from the bottle in a very majestic, smoky, elusive way.  The words accompanying the photo are as follows:  “And after a little while, the smoke collected together, and was condensed, and then became agitated and was converted into an ‘Efreet...”  .  Conversely, Haddawy’s illustration of the same scene is left to the following words:  “After a while, there began to emerge from the jar a great column of smoke, which rose and spread over the face of the earth, increasing so much that it covered the sea and rising so high that it reached the clouds and hid the daylight.  For a long time, the smoke kept rising from the jar; then it gathered and took shape”  .  In this way, the language of Haddawy’s version, to me, seems much more reminiscent of an oral tradition.  While Lane’s version deals with completed actions, simple verbs, as in “the smoke collected together,” “was condensed,” “became agitated,” “was converted,” Haddawy’s version allows for a more elongated experience, one that begs the reader’s imagination to develop and picture the scene for himself.  Phrases like “ a great column of smoke” and “for a long time, the smoke kept rising” allow the reader/listener to visualize a movement more like a movie, a continuing action, than like a standing picture or slideshow.  In this way, Haddawy’s version is true to its oral roots.	Just as we cannot track down the seed of a tree, we likewise cannot track down the original telling of “The Story of the Fisherman (and the Demon).”  Thus, what we’re left with are the trees, the material results, the children, of this story.  At the end of his essay “Translators of The Thousand and One Nights” Borges asks,  “What might a man--a Kafka-- do if he organized and intensified this play, remade it in line with the Germanic distortion...”  .  How might another man interpret this story, grow another tree?  I would argue that here Borges alludes to his story “Kafka y sus precursores” in which he poses the idea that literature which follows other pieces of the literature (as in was written at a later date) actually precedes it in content somehow, or even enhances the literature that comes before it.   As Haddawy comes second, as he was able to read Lane’s translation and all earlier versions prior to writing his own, as he digs down to the oral roots of the story, I would argue that his version is best.  Haddawy taps into an essence of the original yet untapped into by another translator. He adds up the pieces, he compares all trees yet grown.  While perhaps Haddawy’s translation allows us to enter deeper, closer to the seed of the story, to the original, Lane’s too comes from the same seed.  And together, along with all other versions of this story, these translations are the decedents of the original story.  Together they take us as deep, as close as we will ever get to the essence of the original.