To understand some big thing, some really big thing, we humans have to break it down into small things, into things we can conceptualize, into things that will fit into our brains.  For example, if we crave to understand life and how we’re meant to live it, we break that big thing down into smaller Concepts, like Love, Family, Individuality, etc.  And then we define those concepts; we contextualize them, and substantiate them with examples from our day-to-day lives. This is a human truth; it’s how we humans define our world, how we define ourselves, and how we define the way in which we are meant to live our lives.  An author can denote the formation of a concept within a character’s mind by denoting said formation with a capitalized letter.  Upon its iteration, this literary tool can also be used to denote a concept’s cementation into a character’s mind and the ensuing effect on said character’s perspective on the world.  To state it simply:  When a concept relevant to a character’s interpretation of his or her life arises in the text, the author capitalizes said concept in order to give the reader a glimpse into the character’s mind, in order alert the reader to the character’s formed concept.  Arundhati Roy does this in her novel The God of Small Things.  Her brand of this literary technique, though, takes this Concept a little bit further.  While Roy capitalizes different concepts formed by many of her characters throughout the novel, the concepts engrained in the brains of her young protagonists Rahel and Estha seem particularly significant.  Roy uses the capitalization of her young protagonists’ perceived concepts to show that many, if not most, of their perceived concepts are actually Faulty Concepts, concepts perceived incorrectly, concepts that lead them to misunderstand and mis-live their lives.It then can be said that Roy uses the capitalization of Faulty Concepts to illustrate the way in which her twin characters break down the Big Things:  How they make them understandable—or mis-understandble.  Janet Thormann, in her article “The Ethical Subject of The God of Small Things” says that “capitalization enforces necessity and emphasis… As [Roy’s] phonemes and phrases are repeated, they stand out as signifiers marking subjectification.”  She goes on to say that “these signifiers transmit family history and thereby mark the children with a fatality, transmitted like an inheritance” (Thormann).  People construct their understanding of the world as children, when their minds are malleable, are receptive.  They form this understanding of the world by way of the concepts they hear, the concepts they see, the concepts they learn from their surroundings.  “Surroundings,” in the case of children, most directly translates to family, to parental figures.  As Thormann acknowledges, the twin protagonists’ family (and perhaps society as a whole) is one marked with “fatality,” with an understanding of the world that dooms them to fail.  Thus, by way of the Faulty Concepts they perceive from their family, the twins form a faulty understanding of their lives, one that dooms them unhappiness, to a mis-lived life.	One way of understanding Roy’s usage of Faulty Concepts is to think of them as vocabulary words defined wrong, or in an unintelligible way.  Chacko, the twins’ uncle and father figure, in one of his “Oxford Moods” makes Estha and Rahel look up and define the word “Despise” while talking about “a war that has made us adore our conquerors and despise ourselves”  .  They found the definition of “Despise” to be “To look down upon; to view with contempt; to scorn or disdain”  .  As to adore is to love, Chacko here introduces the twins to an antithesis of Love.  He teaches the twins a life concept.  But the way in which he does this is questionable.  He defines this word, yes, but the way he uses it in a sentence soars high over these children’s heads.  Does he expect the twins to understand what “war” it is he speaks of?  Does he expect them to understand what he means when he says “We’re Prisoners of War” or “our minds have been invaded by war”?  These children hear these things, but they’re left with only the fragments that will fit into their little heads.  And it’s those fragments that then form their Faulty Concept.  Roy juxtaposes this scenario, this definition of a word with the following sentence:  “(Humbling was a nice word, Rahel thought.  Humbling along without a care in the world)”  .  This exemplifies how a child can mistake a definition, can misunderstand a Concept, a concept like how she’s meant to fit the word Despise into her world.	Shortly after this example appears, Roy introduces another instance in order to further exemplify how a child, Rahel to be exact, may build a Faulty Concept out of the fragmented ideas given to her by her family.  This instance begins with a grandmother, Mammachi she’s called, who is supposed to have been overheard saying that “what her grandchildren suffered from was far worse than Inbreeding.  She meant having parents who were divorced.  As though these were the only choices available to people:  Inbreeding or Divorce”  .  Rahel, probably having no prior experience of her own dealing with Inbreeding or Divorce, is left to surmise her own definitions of what these concepts mean for her life and its suffering.  The result is as follows:  “Rahel wasn’t sure what she suffered from, but occasionally she practiced sad faces, and sighing in the mirror”  .  This example shows that Rahel “wasn’t sure” about what her grandmother meant.  Yet, she acted upon it anyway.  “Divorce” becomes a concept, one to suffer from.  Rahel thus is led to believe that she “inherits” the badness of Divorce, that it’s in her like a gene.	Another way of understanding Roy’s usage of Faulty Concepts is to think of them as a list or an outline, a delineation of life’s parts.  In one of the first scenes to expose her twin protagonists to Sophie Mol, their westernized cousin, Roy has Rahel ask the following question:  “Who d’you love Most in the World?”  .  After Sophie Mol responds, Rahel takes a turn.  “[Her] ‘list’ was an attempt to order chaos,” was a way of delineating concepts.  “She revised it constantly, torn forever between love and duty.  It was by no means a true gauge of her feelings”  .  Rahel and Estha (as they seem to love as one) form their dutiful list as such, though Rahel seems to take charge:  Ammu/Chacko first, Mammachi—But Sophie Mol interrupts Rahel here, wondering why Estha was not more towards the top  .  Besides the fact that they love as one, Rahel says “anyway he might change.  Ammu says”  .  And by “change” she means that he might become “a Male Chauvinist Pig”  .  Ammu, the twins’ mother, has a poor history with men, remembering their father for his “drunken violence,” and a Divorce  .  She passes this generalized hostility towards men onto her children.  She gives them a limited perspective, a Faulty Concept.  She teaches them that men, all men, are to be detested.  Estha learns that he might, and very likely will, grow up to be detestable.  Rahel learns that she ought to expect very little from men, as most of them are detestable.  It seems no coincidence that Rahel, like her mother, ends up “divorced” as an adult  .	Finally, it seems important to touch upon Roy’s iteration of these Faulty Concepts within the text.  The above iteration of “Male Chauvinist Pig” comes 45 pages after Roy’s first reference to the Faulty Concept.  Ammu introduces the twins to this Faulty Concept by telling her children “the story of Julius Caesar and how he was stabbed by Brutus, his best friend…”  .   She says this to teach them “that you can’t trust anybody… it was entirely possible, for instance, that Estha could grow up to be a Male Chauvinist Pig”.  It is here that the twins learn that the Faulty Concept.  It is in the ensuing iterations and applications of the Faulty Concept that it truly becomes part of their world, part of the way they live their lives.	By using this capitalization of Faulty Concepts technique, Roy shows that humans must break down the Big Things into small things, into Concepts they can grasp.  The problem, she shows, arises when the gods of these small things (parents, society, etc.) misconstrue the small things, the concepts to their children.  Because Faulty Concepts lead to a faulty understanding of life and how to live it.