I.I blame the flowers for the failed dance.  	My teenage impulses forced me to stop and admire him.  Flowers in hand, Jake looked like any girl’s dream date.  My heart melted and my fingers tingled remembering how it felt to scrawl his name into my diary… imagining what it feels like to hold his hand.  	With a whisper that cut through my melted heart like a tidal wave, a faceless kid said, “You know those are yours right?”	Jake turned and looked at me with the cutest awkwardness a teenage girl could imagine.  He waved at me with the same hand in which he held the flowers.  He looked at the flowers, then back at me.  At the flowers, then back at me.  He took a step towards me, then away.  Towards me… but the bell rang and away he went.	I’m surprised I didn’t drown in my hormones during first hour.  But the frenzy didn’t last.  My beautiful flowers, the first flowers a boy ever wanted to give to me, alongside a sign questioning “Homecoming?” situated themselves on my friend’s locker, as I saw the second the bell rang.  Her excitement splashed down the hall spraying me in the face as it passed.	Jake rounded the corner and looked at me with a puzzled edge to that same awkward cuteness.  He looked at the flowers, then back at me.  At the flowers, then back at me.  He took a step towards me, then away. Towards me… but he was too embarrassed by his mistake and away he went.  	I saw him at the dance.  He waved at me with the same hand in which he held his ticket.  He took a step towards me, then away. Towards me… 	I blame the flowers.II.Though other methods of pollination exist, flowers depend upon bees most to accomplish the task.  The process begins when the bee leaves its hive to collect its food, its nectar.  The bee visits its first flower of the day; thus the first step of pollination begins.  The bee inserts its proboscis or long tube into the nectar tube of the flower and drinks.  As it drinks, male pollen from the flower floats into and attaches to the fur on the bee’s body.  Next, the bee visits a second flower.  While the bee again inserts its proboscis and drinks, the male pollen detaches itself from the bee’s body and floats into the female stigma of the flower.  The first flower is pollinated:  the process of creating a seed begins.  While the bee pollinates the second flower, it simultaneously picks up pollen from that flower to carry to the third flower it will visit.  The cycle continues.  III. 	To send flowers is to empathize. To send flowers is to care.   Without flowers, the funeral of a loved one descends as the darkest place in the world.  Flowers distract.  Their colors tear the mind away from the pain for a moment.  Their smell interrupts the sobs and reminds one how to breathe... reminds one that a simple breath did not always hurt.  Their variety points out that life too holds a variety of good and bad and that with each storm comes a rainbow.   The flowers, as a result of the overwhelming smells, colors, shapes, and sizes, dilute the pain.  Consequently, flowers make it possible for celebrating and mourning to coexist.  To send flowers is to point out the beauty of the circle of life.IV. A woman loves receiving any type of flowers, it is true. But men, be forewarned that different types of flowers say different things.  Different types of flowers say different things about you.  First you have the bouquet of red roses.  The connotation linked with red roses, thanks only to what the media plants in a woman’s mind, will drive her to jump into your arms.   Later on, however, she will most likely conclude that you performed such a dramatic scene with the roses in order to fill an expectation, or worse, to mark your territory.  She will see the roses as formal and impersonal.   Moving along, you have the Kroger-brand bouquet of genetically enhanced flowers.  Upon receiving these, a woman will flash you that well-aren’t-you-cute smile in an attempt to hide the well-it’s-the-thought-that-counts reaction her mind struggles to contain.  She will shake her head and smile every time the bubblegum pink, highlighter yellow, and Elmo blue flowers snatch her gaze.  However, if you failed to feature your oblivious y-chromosome on a prior occasion, she may link these fake flowers to a fake romance.  If this poor fortune targets you, she will not smile every time the bubble gum pink flowers abduct her eyes.  Rather, she will shed a quick tear and recall her ex-boyfriend.  And finally, you have the wild flowers.  With a gentle kiss, she will put the flowers in her hair to show you that your melody and hers harmonize together.  She might playfully pluck the petals with a, “he loves me, he loves me not, he loves me…”  You will laugh, get married, and spend the rest of your lives together– at least in her mind.