Day job.  Cups and signs. Outstretched hands of raggedly clothed baby props.  The signs catch eyes and the cups catch change.  The cups catch change given with love and the intention of clothing a baby.  But the hand that holds the sign has a different intention—a desire.  A desire to quench her thirst for alcohol.  The baby remains naked and the mother becomes drunk.	Concern means involvement.  If we have a thin understanding of what our concern stems from, we have a thin understanding of what the problem’s roots grasp at. Our involvement can then become the seeds of another problem.  Martin Luther King, Junior said, “Shallow understanding from people of good will is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will.”  Because shallow understanding from people of good will confuses the objective, it counteracts good intentions more than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will does.	One such prototype occurs when two parties have the same intended goal, but thanks to a misunderstanding from at least one of the parties, the common intention nullifies.  A general example of this idea can be found in politics today in the goal shared by both democrats and republicans.  The goal of improving the economy.  A common goal exists, but the way in which to achieve it is disagreed upon, so the fight for a better economy is hindered.  Similarly, in Public Statement by Eight Alabama Clergymen, the clergymen made statements that insulted and separated themselves from King.  Referring to King’s peaceful demonstrations for desegregation, one such statement said, “We further strongly urge our own Negro community to withdraw support from these demonstrations…”  By announcing this type of criticism of a person with their same goal of desegregation, they are creating a weakness, a break in what could otherwise be a strong chain.  King understood that in order to win the battle, all in favor of desegregation had to unite.  In his rebuttal to the clergymen’s statement, Letter from a Birmingham Jail, he said, “Let us hope that… the deep fog of misunderstanding will be lifted… [and] the radiant stars of love and brotherhood will shine.”  His “stars” refer not only to the elimination of segregation, but more importantly to this rebuttal, to the sanction of a conjoined effort and the removal of such a hindrance to their cause.  Another prototype of good will that counteracts intentions occurs when people act passionately without a full understanding of the problem.  This idea reflects in everyday mistakes.  For example, imagine that a group of children is playing with silly string.  One little boy stands in the corner wearing a frown where a smile could be.  One girl with a can of silly string decides to include the little boy thinking that the feeling of being left out is what weighs down his mouth.  Turns out he’s scared of silly string and the girl’s good will made everything worse.In drawing up the floor-plan for the United States of America, John Adams took his knowledge of human nature and anticipated this same flaw within future governments.  He said, “…I fear that in every assembly, members will obtain an influence by noise and not sense…By ignorance, not learning.  By contracted hearts, not large souls…” (McCullough 106).  Thus, Adams’ philosophy on human nature deems passionate intentions influenced by “noise” to be natural yet counteractive.  The opposite prototype, when people with good will do not act according to their good will due to a lack of understanding, also counteracts intentions.  Again, in Letter from a Birmingham Jail, King describes the moderate white man as agreeing that change needs to occur… just at a later time.  So, the moderate white man does not act.  To this, King says that “time itself becomes an ally of the forces of social stagnation.”  He explains that time is neutral and that not using it amounts only to rust.  The people who misunderstand time’s role in social change (which is essentially no role at all) do not act, so they allow reform to halt thus nullifying good intentions.The argument that absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will counteracts good intentions more so than shallow understanding from people of good will does is not rooted as strongly as its converse.  In The Allegory of the Cave, Plato illustrates a scene in which a person who lives only in the dark amongst shadows and echoes.  This person knows only shadows and echoes to be reality.  To him, the real images and initial sounds are mystery; or rather they do not exist. If this allegory can be paralleled to misunderstanding, then it can be asked how someone who misunderstands, who knows only the darkness to be real, can have an effect on anything in the light of the real world.  Someone who comes from darkness cannot see in the light.  Someone who misunderstands can therefore not counteract good intentions as he does not comprehend the problem’s roots.  Thus, it can be said that misunderstanding from people of ill will does can do little counteracting of good intentions.Shallow understanding from people of good will counteracts good intentions more than absolute misunderstanding from people of ill will does.  Shallow understanding has the ability to confuse the intention; to allow a misunderstanding to separate a group and leave each part with less strength, to allow a misunderstanding that “noise” should guide actions over the favored “sense”, and to allow a misunderstanding in conjunction with false information to keep one from acting upon his good will.  	Day jobs.  Cups and signs.  Outstretched hands of raggedly clothed baby props.  The signs remain unseen and the cups remain empty.  The cups remain empty due to dislike and an ignorance of a baby’s need.  The eyes that purposefully do not see the sign have no intention to help—yet they do.  They help because they do not feed a mother’s addiction.  The baby remains naked, but the mother remains sober.